London is an exciting city with lots of history, artwork, and an English culture that is important to many Americans. Some small cruise ships sail up the Thames and dock right in the heart of the city. Other cruise ships embark or disembark from Harwich, Dover, or Southampton, which are on the coast a couple of hours from the city. London also makes a perfect cruise extension since there are frequent flights between London and the United States.
Buckingham Palace is the home of Queen Elizabeth. It is open to tourists in August and September. Don't miss the famous changing of the guard!
If you happen to be in London the second Saturday in June, be sure to attend the Trooping the Colour ceremony, parade, and flyover by RAF planes held at Buckingham Palace.
London has numerous parks such as Hyde Park. All are very green and filled with people on summer weekend days.
Walking the narrow streets of the Knightsbridge area south of Hyde Park, we saw many pretty little stoops like this one.
These capsules move very slowly, and there is no sense of motion. The London Eye never stops; you just hop into the capsule.
The London Eye provides a bird's eye view of London from its egg-shaped capsules.
The Tower of London and nearby Tower Bridge are must sees for most who visit London.
The "Gherkin" Building got its nickname from its pickle-shape. The Gherkin is more properly known as the 30 St. Mary Axe.
St. Paul's was designed by Christopher Wren and was completed in 1710. St. Paul's survived the WW II blitz of London and was significantly refurbished in 2005.
Cleopatra's Needle is an 86-foot pink granite obelisk dating back to 1450 BC. It looks similar to Egyptian obelisks in Istanbul and Luxor.
This modern City Hall was designed by Foster and Partners for the Mayor of London and his administration.
The London theater is exceptional, and the "tkts" booth in Leicester Square has good discounts on same day seats.
The London theater challenges Broadway for excellence in theater. Going to a play in London is one of the few good values found in the city. Like many tourists (and locals) I head to the "tkts" booth on the edge of the park in Leicester Square, which sells discounted same-day seats. The booth opens at 10 am, but the line queues up before then, with patrons checking the board for which tickets are available that day. While standing in line, you will see people from all over the world looking for a good deal on a great play.
The National Gallery has one of Britain's top collection of European paintings. It's a must see if you love European art history, and it's free.The National Gallery is located in Central London on Trafalgar Square, just a short walk from the Charing Cross or Leicester Square Tube station. Anyone interested in European art will enjoy the quiet National Gallery, but no photos are allowed inside.
St. Martin in the Fields Church is located on Trafalgar Square, and was built in the 1720s.
The first church located on this spot dates back to the 13th century, and was literally "in the fields". St. Martin in the Fields is famous for its concerts, and the noontime concerts are free.
The four lions surrounding Admiral Nelson's column in Trafalgar Square are a popular photo spot or meeting point in London.
The sculptor of the four lions on Trafalgar Square had never even seen a lion when he cast the statues. He used his dog and a cat as the models. That is why the lion has his tongue out, much like a dog!
Admiral Nelson's 170-foot tall column, which celebrates Nelson's sea victory over the French at the battle of Trafalgar, is the centerpiece of the square.
Admiral Lord Nelson tops the column that shares his name in London's central Trafalgar Square. Lord Nelson led his ships in the fight with Napoleon's French fleet off the coast of Spain at Trafalgar in 1805. The British fleet won the battle, but Nelson was killed. Many believe that this victory over the French prevented Napoleon from invading Britain and contributed to his loss at Waterloo.
The familiar red Routemaster buses were retired from regular bus service in London in December 2005, after serving the city for over 50 years.
These wonderful old red telephone booths in London always remind me of the British television show, "Dr. Who." Do you remember it?
A visit to London is not complete without a visit to a London pub for fish and chips (and a pint).
The very modern London Eye wheel contrasts with the historical buildings of the city.
Love those boots!
The Inspection of the Guard Ceremony at the Horse Guard Barracks in London takes place each day at 11:00 am.
The Inspection of the Guard at the Horse Guard Barracks in London is a smaller ceremony than the Changing of the Guard at Buckingham Palace, but it is just as impressive, and there are no crowds. The guards on horseback and the inspection process was very fascinating. The Horse Guard Barracks are just down the street from Buckingham Palace on Birdcage Walk next to St. James Park.
Those who love to see the pomp and circumstance of London should plan to visit on the Trooping the Colour day in June.
After the inspection and changing of the guard at the Horse Guard Barracks, the retired guards and their horses walk back to the stables.
Churchill's underground headquarters in World War II are well-preserved and worth the tour.
Winston Churchill's World War II underground Cabinet War Rooms are a fascinating look at how Britain's senior leaders lived and worked during World War II. The 27 rooms were used by Churchill and his men from 1939 to 1945. A 60-minute audioguide is provided for the tour, and the War Rooms are open from about 9:30 or 10:00 (depending on the time of year) to 6:00 each day. My mother and I felt like we had walked back in time to the early 1940s when we toured the War Rooms.
The underground Cabinet War Rooms were reinforced to protect Britain's senior leaders from the Nazi bombs during the battle of Britain.
The Cabinet War Rooms are preserved just as they were in 1945. Note the old telephones and maps used to track troop movements.
The Marble Arch was built in 1827 and stood at Buckingham Palace until it was moved in 1851.
The marble arch is built of white Italian Carrara marble, and the design was taken from Rome's triumphal arch of Constantine. The marble arch once stood at the entrance to Buckingham Palace, but when Queen Victoria enlarged the palace in 1851, she moved the Marble Arch to the entrance to Hyde Park.
Yes, that's spiderman high atop Madame Tussaud's Wax Museum in London
London street scene near Madame Tussaud's Wax Museum
The changing of the guards at Buckingham Palace is a must see event for tourists.
The changing of the guards at Buckingham Palace is crowded and difficult to see the whole event unless you get there early. However, it's one thing that your friends back home will ask if you attended when visiting London! The changing of the guards happens at 11:30 every day in the summer and about every other day the rest of the year. The band does not march if it is raining. The best views are from the Victoria Monument just outside the gates.
Although it looks like one of the guards in this photo is going the wrong way, he just had not yet turned around.
The Victoria Monument give the best view of the changing of the guard parade at Buckingham Palace, but you will need to get there early for a good spot.
Even with a front row viewing point, you have to observe the changing of the guard at Buckingham Palace through the iron fence.
These band members at the changing of the guard at Buckingham Palace do not seem quite as focused and serious as the guards. I love those beaver hats, but I am sure they are difficult to keep balanced.
Not all the guards at Buckingham Palace wear red coats and beaver hats.
Memorial to Princess Di and Dodi at Harrod's in London is found in a quiet escalator lobby.
Harrod's Department Store in the Knightsbridge district of London is a shopper's wonderland. The owner of Harrod's is Mohammed al Fayed, Dodi Al Fayed's father, and he has a quiet memorial to Princess Di and Dodi in one of the escalator lobbies. The memorial in this photo was replaced in September 2005 with a permanent statue of Diana and Dodi.
The main entrance of the Victoria & Albert Museum features the 30 foot V&A Chandelier designed by glass artist Dale Chihuly and completed in 2000.
The Tower of London displayed 888,246 porcelain poppies in 2014--one for each British soldier who died in World War I, which started in 1914.
Sometimes the Changing the Guard ceremony at Buckingham Palace is so packed with visitors that you can get a better look a the soldiers by watching the parade rather than the ceremony.
The Wake Up London hostel is a good place in which to hang your backpack in London -- central enough, fairly clean, lively, and loaded with amenities. On a quiet side street in a cute Paddington neighborhood, the huge hacienda housing the hostel has room for two lounges, a basement bar and big honking kitchen, a gigundo game room / internet area and 500+ beds. Rates are reasonable, the London tube and bus (double deckers!) routes are less than ten minutes away and staff is almost uniformly friendly, although the exceptions are enough to turn you off this joint for good.
Staying here is like being on a very small college campus -- eclectic folks, fun, quite safe. Remember that, when you choose to stay in a hostel, you get what you get for the money -- expect cleanliness, hot water and locks. Wake Up London has those plus some pluses and minus breakfast.
We give the Wake Up London three stars (one hostel per year may get five as a top rank, and the gap between 3-5 is deep and wide).
Check in is a snap at the Wake Up London hostel; refreshingly for the sometimes service-free hostel world, someone is always manning the Wake Up London's front desk, which is just inside the building's double front doors. Doors and stairs off the lobby lead to a lounge, phone area, and four more levels.
Wake Up London dorm beds start at 11 pounds and 35 for a single room, and that means 35. Hostels usually charge per bed, but the Wake Up London charges by the room; single rooms can contain a double bed or two twins.
Nomads, YHA and ISIC travel cards will get you a one pound discount for the first two nights if booking online. Your credit card won't be charged until you show, or don't show and don't cancel... or show and cancel:
Two of the best room features at the Wake Up London are high ceilings and tall windows -- rooms are flooded with light, showing nothing to hide: rooms are remarkably clean, if normal hostel-shabby.
Wake Up London hostel beds are mostly comfy enough and made up with sheets and one pillowcased pillow. Each bunk comes with a blanket.
My single room on a Spring, 2006, visit had two bunks, a chair, a closet and a non-working TV. Doors and windows lock from inside and curtains close fully; overhead light fixture is decent and lower bunks have a reading light (remember to carry a clip-on book light to read or journal by when sleeping in a hostel dorm).
Ask for a first floor (that's second floor to Yanks) to sleep like a baby -- the hostel bar's basement location means you can enjoy libations on site, and enjoy quiet sleep while others libate two stories away.
The Wake Up London hostel offers 500+ beds, most in four, six and eight bed dorms. Women-only dorms are available.
So here's the deal with travel in England and bathrooms -- they're cold and the water is iffy. There. It's out.
That said, the bathrooms at the Wake Up London hostel were a pleasant surprise. Yep, chilly as could be, but the showers are pretty A-OK -- hot water in a steady stream for the three days of my stay. Some private rooms have baths and no showers and vice versa; if it matters to you, you can try specifying via email after reserving, but don't expect a response; most hostels don't answer email.
Each bunk comes with a towel -- in a money-saving move that's innkeeper insanity, some hostels skimp on this basic amenity, instead renting towels or providing directions to a shop selling towels. Cheers to the Wake Up London hostel for avoiding this common hostel hospitality mistake.
Before you expect too much from any hostel bathroom, memorize these rules of hostel life: someone will throw up in the bathroom, neglect to lift the seat, or forget to flush on crucial occasions. And any hostel shower curtain, from Austria to Zimbabwe, will always cling to you like a clammy-fingered lover. Wake Up London's bathrooms start the day clean, and that's a lot.
Remember that small bathroom appliances need adaptors to mate with English electrical plugs. Before you travel, buy a $20 universal electrical adaptor which will work in most countries.
Any hostel with more than one working computer connected to the internet and available to guests deserves kudos, and the Wake Up London hostel has several. Internet time is expensive, but hostels are probably more reasonable than beaucoup bucks business hotels, and areas like the Wake Up London hostel's internet room are becoming more common in the budget travel world.
Internet can also be had at cafes within a block in the neighborhood, or you can hop the tube to Bayswater (one stop away) for cheap eats and lots o' internet cafe options. I bought a week's worth of wifi for my laptop from a neighborhood provider; about $25 per week for connectivity within the Wake Up London hostel.
The bright and spacious internet and game room area is reached through the phone area or a pleasant lounge, filled with comfy couches and sporting a big TV and books, off the lobby. (A second TV lounge exists downstairs.)
Travel wifi resources:
Related London internet resources: London internet street kiosk photos
A good kitchen means a lot in a hostel, and the Wake Up London hostel's big basement kitchen is pretty fine. With 500+ beds in the building, the kitchen gets a workout and the readiness level shows it: plenty of fridges, counter space and utensils.
Breakfast and boxed lunches are available for purchase in the a.m., and a machine near the kitchen dispenses coffee in various forms for less than a pound per cup (half price 6:00-10:00 a.m.). A basement lounge provides dining tables and chairs, a TV and a magazine rack.
Each level at the Wake Up London hostel is color coded for easy navigation regardless of inebriation level -- as the hostel posts on its website: "We've seen your sort before." The pink-coded basement houses the bar, kitchen, laundry, luggage storage, a coin operated espresso machine and a dining room / lounge with TV and magazines, as well as bedrooms and public toilets. (A second lounge exists upstairs, with another TV, books and comfy couches.)
Washers and dryers take tokens available at a pound apiece from the upstairs front desk (one token per load) -- four of the six machines didn't work during my visit, providing me an excellent excuse to retreat to the hostel's Hiccup bar, through which one must pass to reach the laundry room, and kick back with an au pair from Ontario who was living at the hostel and a med student from San Diego who was heading home.
Diligent detective work during a Wake Up London hostel stay didn't turn up the hostel's Hiccup Bar hours, but it would seem to be closed on Sunday evenings and generally open otherwise from 6:00 p.m. until the wee hours. Big bevvie selection and plenty of partakers, and the basement bar offers scheduled party nights and games. Smoking allowed.
The Wake Up London hostel is in Paddington, which is a West London neighborhood near Hyde Park. The hostel is a block from Craven Road, where shoppers can find small grocery stores, internet and computer rental, pharmacies and cafes. The Paddington tube station is three level blocks away and the Lancaster Gate bus station about two slightly sloping blocks.
There are five major airports in London: London Heathrow, London Gatwick, London City, London Luton, and London Stansted. 
Travelers flying direct from the US on major airlines will most often fly into Heathrow, though some lower-costs transatlantic carriers such as Norwegian now fly into Gatwick. Both Heathrow and Gatwick are located outside of London but they’re conveniently linked to London via direct, dedicated airline trains (the Heathrow Express and Gatwick Express, respectively).
London Stansted is the third-largest airport but like Luton, it’s popular with budget airlines that mainly serve Europe. Both Luton and Stansted are located outside of London and linked to public transportation, though Stansted is better linked with the Stansted Express train.
London City is set within the city limits but offers minimal flights, usually only to domestic or short-haul destinations. Here’s what you need to know about each of the five airports.
London Heathrow (LHR) is London’s largest and busiest airport, as well as one of the busiest airports in the world, which means you can expect long lines at immigration. Most direct flights from the US land at Heathrow, and there are five total terminals (through Terminal 1 is not in use). There are many ways to get from Heathrow into London, and what you choose will largely be determined by where you’re staying. Here are the key options:
Heathrow Express is usually the fastest way into London, as it runs non-stop trains into Paddington Station every 15 minutes. The journey time is 15 minutes from Terminals 2 and 3, and about 10 minutes more from Terminals 4 or 5. The Express Saver single fare is around £25. 
London Underground is the most affordable rail route to London, and Piccadilly line trains run from all terminals and will get you into London in around an hour for about £6.
TfL (Transport for London) Rail’s service runs several trains into London as well, though these are not direct.
Coach buses run all day into Victoria Station, which makes them a good option if you’re arriving very late when the trains and Underground aren’t running. Coaches are very affordable starting at just a few pounds, but journeys are often very long and subject to terrible traffic.
Licensed black cabs are available at Heathrow, as are Ubers, which is always the more affordable option, though there may be a wait for an Uber. Costs are very much dependent on where you’re going, but expect to pay around £80 for a black cab.
London Gatwick (LGW) is London’s second busiest airport, though most US and major carriers do not fly direct into Gatwick. There are two terminals, North and South, and there are many ways to get from Gatwick into London, but here are the key ones: Gatwick Express is the fastest way into London with non-stop train service to Victoria Station every 15 minutes with a journey time of 30 minutes, costing around £30. There are also trains, which can be more affordable but take longer, and coach buses, which are a good option if you’re traveling when the train lines aren’t running (otherwise they take very long due to ever-present traffic). Metered taxis (there are no black cabs at Gatwick) and Uber is also an option but are prohibitively costly at around £100.
London Stansted Airport (STN) is London’s third largest airport and is a major base for low-cost European airlines. There is only one terminal, and there are several ways to get from Stansted into London. One of the best and quickest options is the Stansted Express, which will get you into London’s Liverpool Street Station in around 50 minutes, costing about £30. There are also several companies offering 24-hour coach buses to/from Stansted. Coaches are cheap, but very time consuming. Metered taxis and Uber are available but costly at around £100.
London Luton Airport (LLA) is a major hub for low-cost carriers (mostly European), as such it is very busy. There is only one terminal. There are a few options for transport from Luton into London: Taxis will be expensive from Luton, but there are several other public transportation alternatives: A train is most likely your best bet, as there is an airport shuttle bus linked to Luton Airport Parkway train station, where you can catch East Midlands Trains or Thameslink trains into London, which take around 45 minutes to get to central London and cost around £15. If you arrive late when the trains aren’t running, you can hop on a coach bus, which takes you to Victoria Station in Central London (but depending on traffic, this could be a very long ride).
London City Airport (LCY) is London’s most central airport, and as it’s so small (with only one runway) it’s not only easily accessible but also quick and easy to navigate with short lines and less crowds. The problem is there are few flights. There are several options to get from City into London: Black cabs and Uber will be relatively affordable compared to the other airports, and public transportation is a breeze: The airport has its own stop on the DLR, which takes you right to the tube and costs the same as the tube. London’s buses are another affordable option, and the airport is linked by buses number 473 and 474.
There's no shortage of luxury hotels in London. Corinthia Hotel London is one of the best.• It is a true five-star luxury hotel, where every aspect is superlative: design, rooms, food and beverage, service, location, and views• Corinthia Hotel London has the buzzy, important feeling you get from a grand hotel• It is glamorous enough to appeal to today's most celebrated entertainers..
Among the famous guests of Corinthia Hotel London: Beyoncé and Jay-Z, George Clooney, Rihanna, Nicki Minaj, and Kanye West.
Corinthia Hotel London is firmly on the jet-set A-list as the place to stay in London.
• The hotel's ultra-sophisticated design appeals to the most successful individuals• Its discreet location is off the beaten track, and off the paparazzi map• Seven penthouse suites are simply over-the-top; they are huge, (1,000 to 5,000 square feet), with distinctive looks and personalities• The hotel's seamless blend of modern luxury and Victorian elegance appeals to guests with a taste for elegance and the need for cutting-edge conveniences• Dining and drinking options are excellent, private dining is easy to arrange, and room service is 24-hour• The hotel's ESPA Life at Corinthia is drop-dead gorgeous, with first-rate treatments and sybaritic baths
Service is here is ultra-refined, professional, and multilingual: five-star luxury-hotel service• Guest amenities include same-day dry-cleaning, pressing, and overnight shoeshineHere's an example of the way guest are treated: there are no check-in or checkout times at the hotel: arrive when you get to town and eave any time on departure day
Everything about Corinthia Hotel London oozes glamour:• The spectacular lobby, set under a soaring dome• The Lobby Lounge, illuminated by an art chandelier called Full Moon, glittering with 1,001 Baccarat crystal baubles• The chandelier, called Full Moon, was designed by Chafik Gasmi, from Corinthia's home country of Malta• The hotel's magnificent ESPA Life Spa, made for pampering• In-house hair and makeup services, in the salon or in your suite, by A-list stylist Daniel Galvin
This celeb-favored hotel wins constant awards, and not just fro
Next: Corinthia Hotel London's fine pedigree & fabulous style 
Corinthia Hotel London is a beautiful restoration of an opulent building from the Victoria era of the late 1800s.• It was originally Hotel Metropole, and later the Ministry of Defence• The hotel was reopened as Corinthia Hotel London in 2011 after a three-year renovation
Today, the hotel is the flagship of Corinthia Hotels. This hotel brand is owned and managed by CHI Hotels and Resorts, based on the Mediterranean island of Malta.• Here on Luxury Travel about the Corinthia Hotels brand
Next: Corinthia Hotel London's dead-center location 
Corinthia Hotel London is set closer to the River Thames than most London hotels. It is within a ten-minute walk to these London attractions:• The giant wheel, London Eye (and the glorious city views it furnishes)• The National Gallery• The South Bank• Trafalgar Square
Corinthia Hotel London is under a half-hour stroll to these London attractions:• The British Museum• The Tate Gallery and The Tate Modern• London Bridge
Corinthia Hotel London is brilliantly situated for London transit.• The hotel is directly adjacent to the Embankment tube station, a London Transport hub• For guests who feel that London taxis and double-decker buses are part of the visitor experience, Trafalgar Square is a momentary walk away
Next: See how Corinthia Hotel London's guest suites go beyond 
Corinthia Hotel London's 294 guest rooms include 43 enormous suites. Standard rooms, which average almost 500 square feet, are among London's largest.
Rooms are modern and deluxe, featuring comfortable, sensible layouts, cutting-edge technology, and ultra-elegant furnishings. 
Corinthia Hotel London's 43 suites are all two-story duplexes that are richly furnished and tastefully decorated.The hotel's peak suite is the vast Royal Penthouse Suite, like a mansion in the sky.• Its room-sized terrace flaunts a 180º rooftop panorama of central London and the Thames
All suites feature:• Duplex layout• 24-hour butler service• Italian marble bathroom with deep soaking tub and tropical rainfall shower• High-end bar• Enormous walk-in closet• Tech toys and complimentary wifi
My Deluxe Junior Suite offered nearly 700 square feet of living space.It featured a dedicated sitting area with a chaise lounge• A Super King bed• A huge walk-in closet• The large bathroom had a walk-in rainfall shower• The iPod/iPhone dock and free wifi felt like home
Corinthia Hotel London lacks a pet-friendly hotel policy.
Next: Would you like Corinthia Hotel London's swanky restaurants
Guests at Corinthia Hotel London have their choice of numerous eating and drinking spots. All have high standards of food, drink, style, and service.• See all the restaurants and their menus
The Northall is a handsome vintage space whose specialty is British cuisine• Acclaimed chef Garry Hollihead's kitchen showcases local products such as Cumbrian short-horn cattle, Goosnaugh chicken, and Trealy Farm charcuterie• The Northall's wine list presents little-known but worthwhile organic and biodynamic wines• The Northall's Sunday jazz brunch is deservedly popular• The Northall Bar is a destination for proudly Engish drinks (often with gun or Scotch)
Massimo Restaurant & Oyster Bar serves both Italian cuisine and raw-bar seafood.• Its elegantly festive room looks like it could host a Venetian masquerade ball• Patrons can dine lightly yet luxuriously on a variety of oysters shucked to order• Some of Massimo's Italian specialties: crudo (Italian sashimi) and fresh fish simply grilled, Mediterranean style• Massimo's Continental wines are superb
The beautiful Lobby Lounge is the hotel's social hub. Here, guests and Londoners meet and greet, in classic grand hotel fashion.• The Lobby Lounge serves cocktails, coffee, snacks, and a sumptuous afternoon tea• Tea service includes all the traditional savouries and sweets, such as Eccles cakes and dainty Bakewell tarts
Bassoon is the hotel's handsome, musically inspired bar.• It serves boutique spirits, molecular cocktails, and historically inspired drinks
The Courtyard serves libations in a pleasant al fresco setting.
Room service at Corinthia Hotel London is 24 hours and impeccable.
Next: the must-see ESPA Life Spa at Corinthia Hotel London
The hotel's spa and fitness center, ESPA Life at Corinthia, is one of the most spectacular health and fitness centers a luxury traveler will find anywhere.
The hotel is a perennial winner of prestigious travel awards. Among them:• "Best UK Hotel Spa" in 2014 by Condé Nast Traveller Readers’ Travel Awards• “Best European Spa” from The Sunday Times Magazine• ESPA Life at Corinthia's web page, with spa menus and offers • Read about Luxury Travel writer Joseph Reaney's •afternoon at ESPA Life Spa
In this elegant oasis, you'll find:• State-of-the-art treatments are performed in sleek, lovely treatment rooms• An extensive thermal floor provides a sauna, cold room, steam room, and heated marble lounges with a wall of flame and chaises called "Cleopatra beds"• ESPA's pool is large enough for lap-swimming• A state-of-the-art gym features the latest LifeFitness cardio and weight machines• The Spa lounge offers nutritious, tasty cuisine
Next: how to connect with Corinthia Hotel London 
• Corinthia Hotel London's website• By phone from North America: 877.842.6269• On Facebook• On Twitter (@CorinthiaLondon)• Photos on Pinterest• YouTube videos
Corinthia Hotel London Whitehall PlaceLondon SW1A2BDUnited Kingdom
As is common in the travel industry, the Guest Author was provided with a complimentary visit for the purpose of describing the hotel.  For details, see our site's Ethics Policy.
Staying in a city or town close to London can really save you a bundle and you don't even have to deny yourself the big city fun.
A lot of people have mixed feelings about visiting a world class city like London. They'd love to see that special show, sports event, royal pageant, Lord Mayor's Show and fireworks over the Thames. And they'd love to peek inside some of the most famous stores in the world.
But they believe it's too expensive. Maybe, they worry, the big event they want to see - for real instead of on television - will make London overcrowded and even more expensive. 
The good news is that you don't have to choose between London and someplace else with more reasonable prices and uncrowded surroundings. London is ringed with towns and small cities that have attractions of their own and that are gateways to wonderful regional touring - yet are close enough to London to dip into the urban excitement now and then.
And all these places are full of less expensive, quieter places to stay and dine. Base your vacation or getaway in Oxford or Cambridge, for example, and you're close enough to pop into London, by train or bus for a show, some shopping or sightseeing. Buy your tickets ahead of time and the tickets usually cost a fraction of standard fare.
These are eight favorite places to stay close to London, but you can find lots more. Simply draw a circle on a map with a 60 mile radius of London. That's pretty much within the commuter belt. Then check National Rail Enquiries or Traveline to find the quickest public transportation route into town. National Rail Enquiries will even help you find the cheapest fare and show you how to buy a ticket online.
One of Britain's top 20 destinations for students and other visitors, Cambridge is close enough to London for several day trips yet located in the heart of excellent touring country.
Trains to Kings Cross are scheduled half hourly through the day and take 56 minutes. Trains to Liverpool Street Station take just over an hour. Best advance off-peak day return in 2017 is £14 when purchased as two one-way tickets.
Distance to London Bridge, Central London 58 miles
Oxford is a great university town with its own unique vibe and the oldest university in the English speaking world. 
The Oxford Tube is a popular bus service that runs every 10 to 20 minutes, 24 hours a day, with drop off points at several different London locations and wifi onboard to pass the time. Round trip is about £16 for adults, with student and senior tickets as well as multi trip tickets. The trip takes about an hour and 15 minutes, depending upon traffic.
Distance to London Bridge, Central London 63.5 miles
Amersham, on the Northwestern edge of London in Buckinghamshire, was the setting for one of Britain's most famous romantic comedies, Four Weddings and a Funeral and the home of one of children's literature's most famous bears.
Amersham is on the end of the Metropolitan and City Line - the oldest line on the London Underground, which is the oldest Underground system in the world. The journey takes about an hour an a half. A quicker option is rail to Marylebone Station, which takes 40 minutes. Check National Rail Enquiries for train times, prices and links to buy tickets.
Distance to London Bridge, Central London 34 miles
Brighton is often called London's Beach but it's a town with a strong personality all its own. If you like edgy, urban places by the beach you will love it. 
 Trains  to London Victoria or London Bridge Station leave Brighton about every 15 minutes. The trip takes just under an hour.
Distance to London Bridge, Central London 54 miles due south
The first time you set eyes on Arundel you will wonder why you haven't seen it, or even heard of it before. To put it plainly, this town is simply gorgeous and packed with history.
Arundel is a gateway to much of the South Coast, including seaside resorts, Seven Sisters and Beachy Head. The Cathedral city of Chichester, with its theater, and the Goodwood Estate where both horse and motorcar racing as well as vintage car and air events take place, are easy to reach too.
Direct trains leave regularly from Victoria Station and take about an hour and a half or less.
Distance to London Bridge, Central London About 65 miles
The clapboard houses of Whitstable, with their climbing roses and faded shutters will remind you of New England. It's quaint, relaxing and close to Canterbury as well as London.
Trains to Victoria leave Whitstable regularly. The trip takes about an hour and a half and the cheapest fare is about £20.
Distance to London Bridge, Central London 58 Miles
The latest tourism statistics in 2019 show that London's outer boroughs are growing in popularity with experienced visitors. So you don't have to actually leave London to take advantage of cheaper accommodations and lots to do within easy access of the capital's main attractions. Richmond is a case in point.
The London Underground. Take the District Line from any Central London station at you're delivered to Richmond Station, right on the high street, in minutes.
Distance to London Bridge, Central London 11.5 Miles
Head to London's southeast for Greenwich. In Tudor times it was the center of Royal London - Henry VIII was born there and Elizabeth I ruled from the long gone Greenwich Palace. Later, it's naval college and observatory became the hub of British exploration and the British Empire. There's plenty to see and do and most of the center of Greenwich is included in a UNESCO World Heritage Site..
Greenwich is well located for visitors arriving from European or other UK destinations at London City Airport. It can be reached from Central London by a combination of London Underground to Tower Hill followed by a short ride on the Docklands Light Railway (DLR) which is all part of Transport for London, the public transportation system. 
The best way to get to Greenwich is terms of fun is by Thames Clipper river bus. The river buses leave from Westminster Pier - near Westminster Underground Station and Big Ben and its a 40 minute cruise, past The Tower of London and Tower Bridge to Greenwich Pier. You can use an Oyster card or contactless payment with a credit card.     
Distance to Central London, Tower Bridge 5 miles
The Tower of London was home to the kings and queens of England for many years. (Buckingham Palace has been the official London residence of Britain's sovereign since 1837.)
The Tower of London was a prison and many famous prisoners were held there including Sir Walter Raleigh – he was held in the Bloody Tower for 13 years but made use of his time by writing The History of the World (published in 1614) and growing tobacco on Tower Green. The Tower of London held prisoners from the middle and upper classes so there are no dungeons.
Public executions were held on Tower Green, including two of Henry VIII's wives: Anne Boleyn and Catherine Howard.
The Tower of London was once surrounded by defensive walls and a moat. The moat is now drained and in the summer there are events and concerts held here and in the winter there is the Tower of London Ice Rink.
The White Tower was the original Tower of London and now houses a display of weapons and armory. It was built by William the Conqueror from around 1080 to 1100. He brought his own secondhand stone from France to build the Tower.
The Tower of London tour guides are the Yeoman Warders who live at the Tower. They are better known as Beefeaters, which we think comes from when their job was to taste the king's food to check it wasn't poisoned. The Yeoman Warders are the experts on the Tower and are happy to answer your questions. They also provide free guided tours, included with your ticket.
The Ravens are one of the 'must sees' for a trip to the Tower of London. Legend says that if the ravens ever leave then the monarchy will fall, the White Tower at The Tower of London will crumble and a great disaster will befall England. Ever superstitious, we don't take any chances and Ravens have lived at the Tower since Charles II was told this tale. They are even protected by a royal decree. Each of the ravens has a color-coded leg band. Pick up the Raven identification leaflet so you can check their names.
1 March - 31 October
1 November – 28 February
Open every day, except 24-26 December and 1 January.
Allow 2-3 hours for your visit.
Address: Tower of London, London EC3N 4AB
Telephone number:0844 482 7799 (9am-5pm) (from the UK)+44 (0)20 3166 6000 (from outside the UK)
Web: www.hrp.org.uk
Nearest tube station: Tower Hill.
Use Journey Planner to plan your route by public transport.
Buses: 15, 42, 78, 100, and RV1.Riverboat: From Charing Cross, Westminster, or Greenwich to Tower Pier.
See the official site for more transport options.
You can buy tickets from www.hrp.org.uk but I would recommend The London Pass which includes entrance to the Tower of London. The London Pass gives you access to historic buildings, galleries, museums, and much more - all for one fee. You simply choose the number of days you need your pass and there's even an option to buy a combined pass for London transport too.
How To Save Money on Tickets to the Tower of London
You might like to consider booking a Private Walking Tour of the Tower of London and Tower Bridge.
You also might like to try the VIP tour with exclusive access to the Tower of London, St Paul's Cathedral and The Shard.
You can buy gifts from the five shops at the Tower of London including exclusive products inspired by the Crown Jewels, the Tower, and its residents: the Ravens and the Beefeaters. The Tower Shop is the flagship store by the main entrance so you can shop for souvenirs even when not visiting.
The New Armouries started life as a storehouse when it was built in 1663 but is now the Tower's main restaurant. The menu covers 1000 years of London history and is a celebration of the capital's rich and diverse food markets. There's self-service Brick Lane counter for quick bites, and Covent Garden where you can watch the chef create your chosen salad, or cheeses and baked treats at Borough Market. Old Billingsgate has hot fish meals and Smithfield has roasts. Leaving Leadenhall with pasta and vegetarian options. Just like London's markets, there's something for everyone including children's meals.
Situated on Tower Wharf, outside of the Tower of London grounds, by the river, the kiosk serves pastries, healthy breakfast bites, gourmet sandwiches, hot beverages and expertly made coffees.
The Bureau de Change is near the main entrance and is open 10 am – 6 pm in the summer and 10 am – 5 pm in the winter.
For a small additional fee, there are four audio guides available in:
The Tower of London official guidebook, available from the Tower's shops provides more information on the Crown Jewels and the Tower of London.
Pick up a leaflet at the Welcome Centre on the daily events taking place during your visit.
It is suggested that the Tower is suitable for children in strollers, if your child can cope with the bumpy cobblestones. I would actually say the Tower is not suitable for children in strollers as you cannot gain access to a lot of the buildings due to the stairs and narrow walkways. The cobbles also get slippy when wet so warn young children not to run around.
There are baby-changing facilities in the Brick Tower toilets situated behind the Jewel House.
Baby food and a special children's lunch box are available in the New Armouries Restaurant.
In the White Tower, on the third floor (the top) there are lots of interactives for young people to enjoy. Also, look out for the Royal Beasts exhibition where you can discover which exotic animals used to live at the Tower.
Lost children are usually taken by a Yeoman Warder to the Byward Tower until they can be reunited with their family or group. Do ensure children understand that if they become lost they should ask a uniformed warder for help.
Find out more about family activities at the Tower on the official website.
The Tower of London is a historic building and has uneven flooring and many stairs. This makes it unsuitable for most wheelchair users. The Jewel House is completely accessible to all visitors, and toilets with easy ramped access are situated behind the Jewel House.
You can download a copy of the Tower of London Access Guide which is updated regularly.
Facilities for deaf and hard of hearing visitors:Induction loops are provided at various points in the Tower wherever you see the icon. Audio guides can be used with hearing aids that have a T-switch.
Find out more about access at the Tower on the official website.
You can enjoy unlimited access to five royal palaces by signing up for an annual membership. Your admission fee for the Tower of London will be refunded if you buy ​a membership on the day of your visit.
Historic Royal Palaces manage:
Your Membership of Historic Royal Palaces will include unlimited entry to all Historic Royal Palaces, plus more discounts and perks.
The Tower of London is home to the world-famous British Crown Jewels and they have been on display at The Tower since at last 1661. Representing far more than precious stones and gold, the Crown Jewels symbolize hundreds of years of British history and are still a working collection used today at many State occasions.
In 2012, for the Queen's Diamond Jubilee, the Crown Jewels were re-presented and newly restored footage of Queen Elizabeth II's coronation on 2 June 1953 is now shown in the introductory exhibition in the Jewel House.
The jewels include the largest top-quality cut diamond in the world (530 carats), the Cullinan I (Great Star of Africa), which sits on top of the Queen's Sceptre.
The oldest piece in the collection is the silver-gilt medieval coronation spoon, displayed alongside the ampulla. It was probably made for Henry II or Richard I in the 12th century and is the only piece of royal goldsmith’s work to have survived.
Probably the most famous diamond in the world is the Koh-i-Nûr (Mountain of Light). It weighs 105.6 carats and currently sits in the crown of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, which was made in 1937 for the coronation of George VI and has 2800 diamonds. Legend has it that it will only bring luck to women and it was said that whoever owned it would rule the world.
The only crown allowed to leave the country is the Imperial Crown of India. Set with more than 6000 diamonds, it was made especially for the Delhi Durbar in 1911 when George V was crowned Emperor of India.
So far, there has only ever been one attempt to steal the Crown Jewels - by Colonel Blood in 1671 and yes, he failed.
As you would expect, the Crown Jewels are priceless.
The Langham, London is an elegant Victorian hotel with 380 rooms and suites. It offers a quintessential London hotel experience for visitors who wish to enjoy British tradition and culture.
The Langham, London opened in 1865 and is considered Europe's first grand hotel. It reopened in 2009 after a three hundred million pound refurbishment. Celebrities who have been drawn to The Langham, London over the years include Oscar Wilde, Antonin Dvorak, Winston Churchill, Noel Coward, and Diana, Princess of Wales. The hotel is the flagship of Langham Hotels International, headquartered in Hong Kong.
Visitors arrive at The Langham, London amidst British fanfare. At night, the façade of The Langham, London is festively and alluringly lit. Any time, the most flavorful way to arrive is in a traditional London cab, Taxis enter a circular porte-cochere once used to greet horse-drawn coaches. The uniformed footmen are still there for you.
Location of The Langham, London
The Langham, London is situated on a quiet corner at 1 Portland Place in central London's Marylebone district. The hotel is steps from:• Bustling Oxford Street and its shops• Oxford Circus, a main station of the London Underground ("Tube")• The BBC is across the street; the hotel has long been an informal clubhouse for legendary BBC announcers and reporters• Bond Street's bespoke tailor shops• Tranquil Regent's Park, a few minutes' pleasant walk away
The Langham, London may be the right London hotel for you if:• You like grand hotels with dignified service and traditional decor• You're an Anglophile• You demand a perfectly quiet hotel room• You love dining in your hotel when its restaurants are great• You always take advantage of your hotel's spa and/or gym
The Langham, London may not be your ideal London hotel if:• You don't like vintage hotels, however legendary• You seek a contemporary setting with a cutting-edge vibe• And you're looking for trendy nightlife
See what The Langham London's hotel rooms and suites are like >>
The 380 rooms at The Langham, London blend classic proportions and architectural details with contemporary furnishings. It's a very appealing style.
Rooms range from trim, comfortable Classic rooms to a variety of suites. The biggest is the nearly 5,000-square-foot Sterling Suite, shown above. It has two bedrooms, a library, and more. 
My suite was nearly 600 square feet. It was furnished plushly but not fussily, with a beautiful wood parquet floor. The suite's centerpiece was its luxurious, gloriously comfortable king bed. Other room highlights:• Study with a writing desk and armoire• Touch-sensitive minibar• Full-length gilt mirror• Working fireplace• Three closets with robes, slippers, and a safe• Pod coffeemaker, fruit basket, complimentary Hildon water• Bose wave radio with iPhone/iPod• Vase of roses
Langham, London suites' sizable bathrooms contain:• A blue marble floor• Deep, sunken tub ample enough for two• An enclosed shower with good water pressure• His-and-hers sinks• Deluxe amenities including Quercus by Penhaligon toiletries
Room drawbacks at The Langham, London are few:• Lighting operation is confounding; I am pretty handy but still had to call engineering to show me how to control the system
Club Lounge at The Langham, London
The hotel's VIP Lounge called the Langham Club. Privileges are conferred upon guests in rooms of the Grand Junior Suite category and above. Complimentary offerings include:• A deluxe breakfast• Hot and cold snacks and canapés• Hot dishes during the evening• An open bar with top-shelf liquors like premium Scotch• See if a club-floor upgrade is worth it to you
See if you'd like The Langham London's dining and drinking venues >>
High tea is a beloved English tradition now. But this splendid tradition was established right here at The Langham, London in the years after the hotel opened in 1865.
The Langham, London's high tea was first hosted by a lady-in-waiting to Queen Victoria, Anna Maria, Seventh Duchess of Bedford, as a novel form of late-afternoon entertainment and social life for her "aristo" set. The hotel was the first commercial establishment to serve this refined pre-dinner meal.
Today, The Langham, London's tea service is a signature of this hotel and Langham Hotels worldwide. The Langham Afternoon Tea with Wedgwood is beautifully served on English-made Wedgwood porcelain. It is served in The Langham, London's elegant Palm Court room, shown above. The surroundings are lovely, the service impeccable
The food served at this lovely tea service is creative and delicious, with an emphasis on modern desserts. Amongst Executive Pastry Chef Cherish Finden's creations is a chocolate cake with flavors of espresso and amaretto; a chocolate-and-yuzu confection; and marzipan macaron sin strawberry and lemon. All are served on a harmonious Wedgwood plates.
The hotel's upscale restaurant, Roux at the Landau, is run by Michel Roux, the London celebrity chef. He achieved three Michelin stars at Michael’s Waterside Inn, the famous restaurant located on the Thames.
Roux at the Landau is an excellent bet for dinner. The restaurant is also a draw for its international breakfasts: English, Continental, Japanese, and Lebanese.
The hotel's Artesian Bar at The Langham, London (seen above) is a draw for Langham guests and Londoners alike. It offers seductive atmosphere and hand-crafted cocktails made with classic technique and modern ingredients.
Read about the top-shelf spa & gym at The Langham London >>
The Langham, London's various fitness options are known as The Langham Health & Fitness Club. Its offerings include:• Chuan Spa, with a seductive Asia vibe, offers both Western and Eastern and Western treatment modes, like TCM (traditional Chinese medicine); a small Vitality Pool; steam and sauna baths, and meditation areas• The 24-hour Fitness Center, with state-of-the-art TechnoGym equipment (cardio and circuit-training machines) and roving personal.• A 16-meter (52 1/2 feet) lap pool and Jacuzzi
How to connect with The Langham, London >>
• The Langham, London's website• By phone (+44) 20 7636 1000 and via email• On Facebook and on Twitter• The Langham, London,1c Portland Place, Regent St. London, U.K. W1B 1JA• Meet The Langham, Chicago (in a fab landmark building)
As is common in the travel industry, the Guest Author was provided with a complimentary visit and High Tea for the purpose of describing the hotel. 
In the UK, we have a tradition of making and eating pancakes on Shrove Tuesday, which falls between 2 February and 9 March, depending on the date for Easter. Pancake Day, or Shrove Tuesday to use its correct title, is the traditional feast day before the start of Lent on Ash Wednesday. Lent - the 40 days leading up to Easter - was traditionally a time of fasting and on Shrove Tuesday Christians went to confession and were "shriven" (absolved from their sins). Pancake Day became a great way to use the foods that were given up for Lent – milk, butter, and eggs. The humble pancake has featured in recipe books as far back as 1439.
4 oz (100 g) plain flour10 fl oz (300 ml) milk2 eggs2 oz (50 g) melted butterPinch of salt
German and French pancakes are very thin and served with sweet or savory fillings. The French crêpe is thin and crispy - a crêpe suzette is folded or rolled and heated in a sauce of butter, sugar, citrus juice, and liqueur.
Russian blinis are thin, crisp pancakes, commonly served with caviar and sour cream or folded over and filled with cream cheese or jam.
Mexico has tortillas, which are often served folded with a bean or meat filling and topped by tomato sauce.
American pancakes are thicker and can be called battercakes or griddlecakes.
There are a growing number of annual Pancake Day races in London. The aim of a pancake race is to run as fast as you can while tossing a pancake in a frying pan! Some races have teams doing a relay, some have competitors in fancy dress, but all are great fun to watch.
Rehab UK Parliamentary Pancake Race Review
Location:The race takes place in Victoria Gardens (opposite College Green) at the other end of Houses of Parliament to Big Ben – adjacent to the river. You'll find it!
Nearest tube station: Westminster
Description:Members of both Houses of Parliament (House of Lords and House of Commons) and representing all the major political parties compete in this highly competitive race.
Final team selection is often a secret until the morning of the event, but veteran pancake racers Lord Morris of Manchester, Lord and Lady Dholakia, Betty Williams MP and Steven Pound MP usually take part.
A VIP official starter will be on hand to ensure that the Rules of Engagement are strictly observed, including a newly-imposed ban on tripping up other competitors!
Race Time:9.45.am - 10.30am(Note: the race is only 5-10 minutes so enjoy the fun before and after.)
Extra Information:Rehab UK is part of the Rehab Group and operates from three innovative brain injury rehabilitation centers, including one in London. It provides a comprehensive range of specialist services, from vocational and educational assessment and training to case management, and develops bespoke programs for people in the comfort of their own homes. It's all about enabling people with disabilities to return to education, to break into the workforce and sustain employment and to enable them become more socially and economically independent.
Location:Dray Walk, Old Truman Brewery, Brick Lane, E1Nearest tube stations: Aldgate East / Liverpool Street.
Start Time:12.30pm, followed by the finals and the prize giving.
Official Website:The Great Spitalfields Pancake Race
The Inter-Livery & City of London Pancake Races Photos
Location:Guildhall Yard, in front of the Guildhall in the City of London.Nearest tube stations:St Paul's / Mansion House / Bank.
Description:Four races with the teams wearing official attire for their ceremonial roles - plus a chef's hat and an apron!
Race Time: From 12pm midday
Location:Borough Market's Jubilee Place just off Winchester Walk, near Southwark Cathedral.Nearest tube station: London Bridge.
Description:Better Bankside is a business improvement district that covers from Southwark Bridge to London Bridge. They hold an annual Pancake Day Race to raise money for charity. Expect to see five heats plus a winners' race. It's a simple relay race with four members in each team (maximum of 25 teams).
The Dean of Southwark Cathedral will begin the race and all are welcome to come along, support their teams and enjoy the live music.
For spectators and participants Borough Market trader Baxter's and The Refectory at the Cathedral will be selling pancakes with a variety of toppings: cinnamon, lemon, nutella, fruit salad and banana. Other traders from Borough Market will be there on the day providing a host of sweet treats and the market’s Demonstration Kitchen with resident chef Hayley Edwards will be there to show you how to create a range of delicious pancake fillings from the Market’s produce.
Start Time: 12 noon. Races start at 12.30pm.
Finish Time: 2pm.
Better Bankside Website: Better Bankside Pancake Day Race
Another race nearby: In the same area, there is also be the The Flipping Marvellous SE1 Charity Pancake Race 12.30-2pm at The Scoop, outside City Hall. Find out more...
Nearby Dining: Southwark Cathedral Refectory.
London has been a popular tourist destination for centuries. The city is filled with historic buildings, top-notch museums, well-known monuments and music and arts venues. Whether you are looking for world-class art, centuries-old gardens or shopping districts, London is a perfect destination. While London's accommodations and restaurants are on the expensive side – London is a financial and government center as well as a tourist destination – you can experience London without leaving your life savings behind.
London's hotels are known for their high prices and less-than-impressive standards, but you can stay in London inexpensively if you plan ahead. The best budget hotels to book are well-known and fill quickly during peak travel times.
London's budget chain hotels are the frugal accommodation choice for many travelers. While you do not have the ambiance and history associated with a family-run hotel or bed and breakfast, you get a decent, clean room, usually with the option of a free or prepaid breakfast. Some of London's good-value hotel chains include Premier Inn, Travelodge and  Express by Holiday Inn. (Tip: Pay close attention when you research your Express by Holiday Inn hotel to make sure you do not reserve rooms in another InterContinental Hotels property.)
If you prefer a more traditional London hotel experience but do not have hundreds of British pounds to spend, consider the Luna & Simone Hotel (book direct) in London's Victoria neighborhood or the Morgan Hotel, near the British Museum. Both of these hotels offer good-value rooms with TV and full English breakfast. Neither the Luna & Simone Hotel nor the Morgan Hotel has an elevator ("lift" in British English), and the Luna & Simone, like many British budget hotels, is not air conditioned.
You can also save money by staying at youth hostels or bed and breakfasts. If you decide to stay at a B&B, be sure to ask about smoking, pets, accessibility, shared bathroom facilities and distance from London's tourist attractions.
While you will pay less for accommodations outside the Congestion Zone, you will incur higher transportation costs and spend a lot of time each day getting to and from your room. You may decide that it is better to pay more and stay closer to the museums and neighborhoods you plan to visit.
London's restaurants feature every imaginable type of cuisine. Prices range from big-city budget to completely outrageous. You certainly do not have to eat at Pizza Hut and Burger King every day; you can enjoy low-cost meals without eating fast food. Some visitors fill up on the full English breakfast served by their hotel, eat a light lunch and look for good-value dinners. Other travelers eat a larger midday meal and pick up fish and chips or other takeout at dinner to save money. Eating in pubs is not only fun but is also a London tradition. The Museum Tavern near the British Museum is a popular choice with foot-weary travelers, and there are several good-value pubs near Waterloo Station.
If you are looking for a reasonably-priced restaurant with a great beer list, head straight for one of the seven Belgo restaurants in London. This Belgian-themed chain has an incredible beer selection. Belgo's £8.95 weekday express lunch includes a glass of wine, beer or soda, an entrée and side dish from the set menu and is available from 12:00 noon until 5:00 p. m.  My Old Dutch Pancake House serves up huge crèpe-like pancakes filled with meats, cheeses and veggies for £7.95 - £11.50 at its three London locations. Save room for a dessert pancake (£5.25 - £7.95).
Indian food, long a budget traveler's best friend, is available throughout London; try Masala Zone's lunch special or regular thali (seven locations). If you prefer Asian food in general and noodles in particular, fill up at Wagamama. Each of Wagamama's 12 restaurants serves noodle and rice dishes, salads and appetizers for £9.95 - £14.25.
You can reach London by air via any of the city's five airports. While most flights from the US arrive at Heathrow, you may also get to London via Gatwick, Stansted, London Luton or London City Airports. Whichever airport you choose, you will need to determine how to get from the airport into London itself. In most cases, you will travel by train or Tube (subway) from your airport to London.
You can also travel by Eurostar ("Chunnel") train from the European continent to London, by British Rail from other parts of Great Britain or by ferry from Ireland or the Continent to England.
Plan to use public transportation and / or taxis to reach your London hotel. Not only is traffic intense during rush hour, parking is expensive and the city imposes a congestion charge for the privilege of driving in certain downtown areas.
London's public transportation system includes an extensive bus network and the famous London Underground (the "Tube"). While all of London's buses, except for a few Heritage Route buses, are wheelchair accessible, the Tube is not yet very wheelchair- or slow walker-friendly. Approximately one-quarter of all Tube stations are wheelchair-accessible. Transport for London publishes several downloadable accessible travel guides to London which have up-to-date information about Tube stations and accessible public transport.
Whether you travel by bus or Tube, consider using an Oyster Card to pay for your trips. Paying for your travel with an Oyster Card is less expensive than using traditional tickets, and the Oyster Card is easy to use.
London's famous Black Cabs are a local, if somewhat pricey, tradition. You will really feel like you have seen London once you have bounced and slid across the back seat of a Black Cab. Minicabs are less expensive but also less convenient. You will have to telephone a minicab office if you'd rather use this less expensive option. Uber also operates in London,
London is full of wonderful park pathways, amazing historic buildings and incredible museum exhibits. Most visitors to London find themselves so fascinated by each place they visit that they cannot see everything on their list. Many of London's most famous sights and museums are free to the public; you can fill your sightseeing itinerary with 20+ attractions, walks and activities without spending ten pence.
The British Museum is not only free but also wheelchair accessible. You can spend an entire day here, taking in the Rosetta Stone, Elgin Marbles, Assyrian relief carvings and artifacts from ancient, medieval and Renaissance Europe. The British Library Gallery's permanent collection includes the Magna Carta, a Gutenberg Bible and other famous manuscripts and musical scores. London's renowned art museums, most of which are free to the public, are great late-afternoon sightseeing destinations because many offer late opening hours once or twice each week.
Many visitors to London head for famous buildings, including the Tower of London (a must-see), Buckingham Palace and Westminster Abbey. Others prefer strolling through London's many parks and gardens, including Regent's Park and Hyde Park, home to the Diana Memorial Fountain. Take time for a leisurely walk through a London park; you will become part of pathways back through history made famous by kings and queens and you will see modern Londoners enjoying their city's green spaces.
London is known for its pageantry, especially the Changing of the Guard ceremony. Other London rituals, while less formal, are equally famous, like lining up for half-price theater tickets in Leicester Square. If you visit London in mid-May, set aside time for the Chelsea Flower Show. Celebrate the Queen's birthday with the locals in June (even though her birthday is really in April). The City of London Festival runs from mid-June to early August, with free outdoor concerts and ticketed indoor events. November's Guy Fawkes (or Bonfire Night) celebrations light up the late autumn sky with fireworks displays.
These UK day trips are quick, fun alternatives to a day in the city. Castles, famous movie sets, great discount shopping, historic homes, and gardens are all less than two hours from London. And transportation links from the British capital to the suburbs, the countryside and even other nearby cities are easy, fast and reasonably priced.
If you are looking for an alternative to London's hustle and bustle, and a chance to see England from a different perspective, a quick "away day" may be just the ticket. They're all reachable by public transportation too.
UK travel tip: To keep transportation costs down, try to book your train or coach tickets well in advance to take advantage of the lowest fares.
Vladislav Zolotov / Getty Images
Windsor Castle is everyone's idea of a fairytale castle. And there's plenty to see at the Queen's weekend home (which, we hear, is her favorite). The building alone covers 13 acres and is the biggest inhabited castle in the world. William the Conqueror picked the site, west of London overlooking the Thames and it has been a Royal residence and fortress ever since - almost 950 years.
If you've ever wanted to walk in the footsteps of your favorite film characters or look behind the scenes at how all the special effects are accomplished, Warner Brothers' Harry Potter attraction at its Leavesden studios, 20 miles northwest of London is a must see. And if you or members of your family are Harry Potter fans, this is a definite "don't miss".
The makers of the film have pulled together some of the most iconic sets, loads of the actual props used in the films and created a walking tour in two soundstages where the Harry Potter films were made. Even for those of us who have not been dyed-in-the-wool Harry Potter fans, it's endlessly fascinating and entertaining. We spent about five hours there, making the apparently high ticket prices surprisingly good value for money.
Top tip: Don't forget to book your tickets in advance. No tickets are offered for sale at the site.
In 2016, Brighton added a spanking new attraction: The BA i360 rises more than 500 feet above the seafront and on a clear day it really does seem like you can see forever. It's only one of the attractions of the funky seaside resort known as London's beach. The Royal Pavilion, Brighton, the splendid summer house built by George IV when he was Prince Regent, is an Arabian Nights fantasy slap bang in the middle of town. In the early 19th century, his architect, John Nash, slapped a cast iron framework around an older, simpler farmhouse and, well, just went to town, really.
There's more than enough to do in Brighton to spend a short break. Visitors love to stroll among the antique shops and boutiques of "The Lanes", walk the shingle beach or take some fish and chips out to the end of Brighton's Victorian pier. In winter there's the spectacle of Brighton Burning the Clocks and in May Brighton stages England's biggest multi-arts festival. Why not plan a Brighton getaway?
Oxford University, England, is the oldest university in the English speaking world, dating back to the 11th century. Graduates have made notable contributions in every form of human endeavor.
Walk these streets and you will be following in the footsteps of Nobel prize winners, kings, presidents, and prime ministers. The university has produced saints, scientists, explorers, artists, authors, and actors.
And where you find students and the UK's gilded youth you'll also find wonderful pubs and great shopping.
Another Oxford treat is the recently reopened Ashmolean Museum of Art and Archaeology. Founded in 1683 as Britain's first public museum, its dusty and dark old galleries were reborn with a major, multi-million-pound refurbishment program. The museum reopened in 2009 with 39 new galleries and a 100% increase in exhibition space.
Among the treasures you might see at the Ashmolean are drawings by Michaelangelo, Raphael, and Rembrandt; a Stradivarius Violin; ancient Chinese and Middle Eastern porcelain and glass; the coins with the heads of Nero and Henry VIII, and lots more. The museum is part of Oxford University and it's free.
Altogether Oxford is a terrific, and easy, day out of London.
Blenheim Palace is more than another one of England's stately homes. This magnificent palace, home of the Dukes of Marlborough and an easy day trip from London, is:
It's in Woodstock - the gateway to the Cotswolds - and less than two hours away from London.
Shopping! If you thought London was the be-all and end-all of fashionable shopping, a short train journey to Bicester Village will open your eyes. More than 100 chic boutiques are all discount designer outlets. All the big European and international designer brand names are there with prices much lower than Bond Street or Fifth Avenue. And there are a few restaurants and coffee shops where you can rest your tired feet (or park your "bag man").
Ightham is as charming a Kentish village as you can imagine - but it's the sort of place with so many dark happenings in its history that Agatha Christie would have rubbed her hands together with glee.
Besides having picturesque 14th and 15th-century houses and pubs, Ightham is just up the road from Ightham Mote, a fortified medieval manor, and just down the hill from Oldbury Wood, a protected ancient woodland and Iron Age earthwork. There's plenty to see, a good lunch to be had at the George & Dragon and some fine but easy walking.
Nothing can really prepare you for your first sight of Stonehenge. No matter how many pictures you've seen of this iconic landmark, watching it rise up from Salisbury Plain is heart-stopping.
After that, in the past, a visit to the site could be disappointing. But in 2013 the monument was reborn. A new visitor center with a reconstructed Stone Age village and a restoration of the ancient landscape around the stones themselves, plus the opening of an excellent museum and interpretive center shows off ​Stonehenge in a completely new light.
The road that once passed close enough to rattle the stones was dug up and grassed over as was the old parking area. Now, from the visitor center, you can either walk a mile to the stones or travel in a silent electric buggy to within a few hundred yards. 
You can book various coach tours to get to Stonehenge but they're typically overpriced and try to cram in too many different places. Instead, especially if you are an independent sort of traveler, go by train via Salisbury to visit the city's nearly 800-year-old cathedral. Among its highlights are the best preserved of the four remaining copies of the 1215 Magna Carta, the world's oldest working mechanical clock, and - at 404 feet - the tallest spire in Britain.
A neighboring lord once described Leeds Castle, near Maidstone in Kent, as "the loveliest castle in the world." It's hard to argue once you see this gorgeous, 900-year-old moated castle, surrounded by gardens and parklands.
Unusually, from its beginnings, this castle has been inherited by women. It was the dower house of six Plantagenet Queens, the so-called she-wolves of England. Later, Henry VIII had it updated and made luxurious for his first wife, Catherine of Aragon.
What makes Leeds Castle a particularly fine day out is that there is plenty to please everyone in the family. Besides its glorious interiors and wine cellars, it has a devilish maze with an exit through a scary grotto, two playgrounds for pretending to be knights and ladies, a dog collar museum with more than 100 unusual and historic examples, several restaurants, a covered pavilion for temporary exhibits and a full schedule of family-friendly events.  
Hever Castle, Anne Boleyn's childhood home is a fascinating place. Steeped in the history of Tudor court intrigue, the house was begun in the 13th century and made into a comfortable Tudor home by the Bullen (or Boleyn) family. It later became part of Henry VIII's divorce settlement with Anne of Cleves, his 4th wife. The house has a very good collection of Tudor portraits, lots of family activities, two mazes to wander around in, jousting, romantic gardens, and several restaurants and snack bars.
Strolling through the castle's magnificent gardens before stopping for lunch or a cup of tea makes a really fine UK day out. And there's plenty more to do for every member of the family:
Throughout the summer months, Hever Castle also hosts a variety of events including jousting tournaments, demonstrations of longbow warfare and a summer performing arts festival in its open-air theatre, with matinee and evening performances.
For 400 years, the Historic Dockyard at Chatham in Kent built the ships that built the British Empire. From the mid-1500s to its closure in 1980s, it created, launched and maintained some of the most historic ships of the British Navy. HMS Victory, Admiral Nelson's flagship at the Battle of Trafalgar, was built here. 
When it closed, time stood still. And while various interests tried to decide what to do with, it was saved for posterity. And it is an amazing place to visit. The 80-acre site has 100 listed buildings and 47 scheduled ancient monuments. There's
This barely scratches the surface. This is one of the best historic sites you can visit. And if you're lucky, you might get to see some of your favorite film and TV stars at work. The historic buildings of the dockyards are popular backdrops for filmmakers.
Beaulieu, a country house in the New Forest, is a great day trip, not far from London, that is jam-packed with things to see and do. Besides offering a look at Victorian upstairs-downstairs life in a manor house, it has beautiful gardens, an abbey ruin, a monorail, vintage double-decker bus, a restaurant, and Go Karts. 
But all of that pales before Beaulieu's amazing National Motor Museum. Car enthusiasts from all over the world come to admire more than 100 years of automobiles, plus star cars, movie cars, and James Bond cars. It's a knockout!
Red House was the only building ever commissioned by 19th-century artist and designer William Morris. Now owned by the National Trust and open to the public, the house, in Bexley Heath, just south of London, was designed as Morris's first marital home by his friend and design partner Philip Webb.
Artists and writers of the period were frequent visitors, including Dante and Christina Rosetti, Augustus and Gwen John. Some added their own personal touches, which can still be seen. Pre-Raphaelite Edward Burn-Jones, a frequent visitor, designed some of the stained glass and, inside an upstairs closet, there's a primitive painting attributed to Gwen John.
Morris believed a garden should "clothe" a house and the gardens at The Red House have been landscaped according to drawings and pictures of Morris's original designs.
Bexley Heath is the nearest train station. Trains from London Victoria or Charing Cross Stations take about half an hour. Plan on visiting in good weather as The Red House is a 3/4 mile walk from the train station.
If your idea of heaven is spending hours poking around an enormous antique center with dozens of dealers trading in everything from junk to treasure, then you will love the Battlesbridge Antiques Center.
It's a collection of buildings, including a former granary and a range of barns, sheds, and cottages, open every day from about 10 am to 5 pm. At any one time, at least 80 antique dealers buy and sell a very wide range of items including stamps, jewelry, ephemera, furniture, vintage clothing, lamps, music boxes and musical instruments and, yes, plain old-fashioned dusty junk. Paradise.
This isn't the sort of place where posh interior decorators find elegant 18th-century Italian furniture. It's a real grab bag of antiques, reproductions, and fakes. But there are real treasures to be found.
By the way, in case you are wondering what battle took place here, the answer is none. The village takes its name from a family named Bataille who once looked after the bridge over the River Crouch beside the Granary.
The Royal Horticultural Society's Wisley Garden is where keen English gardeners go to be inspired. Its world famous collection of plants has been developing for more than 100 years and there is always something new to see, any time of year. Spread out over 240 acres in Woking, Surrey, about an hour's drive from Central London, Wisley is a lovely, peaceful place for a stroll as well as a demonstration garden full of practical garden design ideas and cultivation techniques.
In June 2007, a huge new glasshouse, 40 feet high and covering an area equal to ten tennis courts, was opened to the public. The glasshouse at RHS Wisley covers three different climatic zones - tropical, moist temperate and dry temperate habitats. A winding path, past rocky outcrops, waterfalls, pools, and slopes, leads visitors through the glasshouse to see some of Wisley's most important plant collections. The RHS's tender plant collection is housed there. So are rare and endangered species and hundreds of varieties of orchids.
A new lake, intended to bring environmental benefits to the whole of Wisley and colonized by mollusks, damselflies, dragonflies, and amphibians, surrounds The Glasshouse.
Do you know how to enjoy a layover in London and still stay on budget? The first thing to enjoy is your view on final approach.
Maybe if the weather cooperates and the flight path is similar, you will be able to take a few pictures. Although there are other area airports, most of the time your London layover will start or finish at either Gatwick (south of Central London) or Heathrow (west of Central London). Gatwick has a north and south terminal, while at Heathrow the terminals are numbered from one to five.
Together, these two airports handle an estimated 100 million passengers a year, with both Heathrow and Gatwick ranking among the top passenger airports in the world. Don't assume your scheduled 11 a.m. landing will have you inside the gate at precisely that time. It's also important to know which terminal you'll be entering and how to find your way around each airport. That task is made simpler by two airport websites for Heathrow and Gatwick.
This is Heathrow Terminal 5, the newest and perhaps most impressive section of the airport. In many places it looks more like an upscale shopping mall than a busy international crossroads for air travelers. All those people you see waiting on the first level already have cleared security and are awaiting word on a gate for departure. In my experiences, security lines at Heathrow move along efficiently. But you can only go so quickly when the lines are long, which is the case here almost every day. So allow plenty of time to depart the terminal (usually a fairly long walk or bus ride is involved) and time at the other end of your layover to board the outbound flight.
If you'll be leaving luggage, there are places to store it here. You'll pay dearly for the privilege: at Heathrow, it's £6 for up to two hours, and £11 for 2-24 hours, £18.50 for 24-48 hours. Gatwick prices are about the same.
While no one likes paying these left luggage costs, hauling your luggage through a whirlwind tour of London is even less appealing. Some hotels will allow you to leave luggage after checkout, and a few will even do so for free. Just be sure the hotel is convenient to your path back to the airport.
For most budget travelers on a London layover, trains offer the best combination of efficiency and economy for a trip into the central city. By contrast, cab rides between Heathrow and central London range from £46-£87 ($56- $106). Gatwick fares are roughly £130 ($159 USD) each way. Yes, a 10 percent tip is expected on top of those fees. Most budget travelers say "no thanks" to these prices.
Fortunately, train travel options are efficient and convenient. The more expensive choices will save valuable time, and in a London layover situation, that might provide the best value. It's important to choose the best option for your budget and layover length.
The Gatwick and Heathrow express trains connect both airports with Central London, Gatwick-Victoria Station and Heathrow-Paddington Station. The Gatwick Express starts at about £20 ($25 USD) single for a 30 minute ride; The Heathrow Express runs £22-25 ($27-$31 USD), depending upon whether or not you travel at peak times. Note that buying tickets online entitles travelers to a small discount.
The London underground or "tube" trains also run from Heathrow to Central London and cost much less, but they take twice as much time because they make many stops along the way. For that reason, it always pays to get express tickets when your layover time is limited. This is not a place to economize. Save the time for sightseeing. 
If you do take The Tube, use the Picadilly Line and expect to pay about £6 ($8.50 USD) for a one-way single ticket. Americans without chip credit cards should note that the ticket machines are set up for chips. The Chip and Pin security measures are common throughout Europe. If this is a problem for you, take advantage of the traditional ticket windows. 
There are no London underground options from Gatwick, but there is a somewhat slower train called the Southern which costs £20 single ($25 USD) for an average journey time of 50 minutes.
There is a coach line that makes the trip from Heathrow to Central London for about the same price as the tube trains, but it is subject to the notoriously heavy road traffic in this area.
A few words of caution: all the travel times here are rough estimates and probably best-case scenarios for the most part. Pad these travel times considerably as you make your London layover plans.
Many a London layover takes place during a 24-hour day with no need for overnight accommodations. But in some cases, you'll need to spend the night. Some in this situation prefer to travel into Central London and enjoy the benefits of being in the heart of one of the world's most important cities. Others opt for a budget hotel near the airport from which they will depart. The second option usually results in a smaller bill, but some of these so-called airport lodgings take an hour to reach even though they are only a mile or two from the terminal. Shuttle buses travel congested roads and make many stops along the way. Hoppa Buses serve Heathrow and local hotels for £6 direct ($7.30 USD).
Accor Hotels, including Ibis have airport hotel facilities, but you can also search hotel prices for hotel prices along the Picadilly Line, which might prove more convenient at times.
The time-honored Changing of the Guard tradition usually is the first thing London layover travelers investigate. Why not? It costs no money, but it will cost some time getting into position to see it. Speaking of time, it occurs at 11:30 a.m. daily outside of Buckingham Palace during the summer months. At other times of the year, it is every other day. The entire ceremony there lasts about 45 minutes.
We suggest visiting the Guards Museum prior to the ceremony. There is a small entry fee, but you'll leave with a better understanding of what is about to take place.
Note that there is another nearby ceremony referred to as "changing of the guard" in London. Horse Guards Parade is the scene for an 11 a.m. ceremony (10 a.m. on Sundays).
For someone who has spent little or no time in London, it might be best to take the London underground to Westminster Station. When you emerge to the street level, you'll be near familiar landmarks such as Big Ben, The London Eye, Parliament and Westminster Abbey. Nearby, you can stroll along the Thames and see the Tower Bridge and the Tower of London. This is where you will find one of London's greatest concentrations of iconic attractions.
A London layover of just a few hours could allow visits to several of these places, but note that not all of them fit into the budget category. For example, the London Eye is among the world's largest observation wheels with a maximum height of 135 meters (440 feet). But you're likely to spend some time in line with the 10,000 daily visitors and you'll pay a single rate of £22.45 ($27.35 USD). There are higher-priced tickets for fast-track entry.
The Tower of London is another pricey attraction that might better be visited when you have time to enjoy it: entry fees are £63 ($77 USD) for a family and £25 ($30.45 USD) for an adult. Note that you save money when you buy these tickets online.
On a short layover, you can make a walking tour that allows photographs of the major attractions. If you choose only one, be certain you'll have enough time to see everything it offers for the admission price.
If your timing is right and you don't mind some time in line, it is possible to visit British Parliament for free. There is a public queue (line) outside the St. Stephens entrance. About.com's London Travel Guide advises arriving about 1 p.m. on the days Parliament is in session to avoid the longest wait times. The House of Commons Information Office can provide updated information for what might be happening on the morning or afternoon of your London layover.
Those in need of an inexpensive but informative primer on Central London can invest £6 ($8.50 USD) for an audio walking tour of London from Head to Foot Audio Tours. One tour is called "Corridors of Power" and includes Trafalgar Square, Whitehall, Westminster. Another at the same price is titled "Palaces, Processions and Piccadilly" and includes Trafalgar Square, The Mall, Buckingham Palace, Royal Parks and (as you might imagine from the title) Piccadilly.
The talks are recorded in sections which you download from the Internet onto your MP3 player. You also download a map marking the route.
For those who like a traditional walking tour with living, breathing guides, consider London Walks which charges a modest £10 ($12 USD) and £6 for seniors age 65 or older. No need to make reservations with London Walks. Watch a video that explains the procedure and make your plans accordingly.
Perhaps you've been to London several times and you've seen all the major attractions. Maybe you only have three or four hours total before you need to get back to the airport. Here is a fascinating activity that you can only experience in London: a tour of the Churchill War Rooms.
At a fairly steep admission price of £19 ($23 USD) per adult, it's not the cheapest option for a London layover. But if you have an appreciation for 20th century history and at least an hour of free time, it's worth the price.
Churchill and his brain trust conducted the war against the Axis powers from a basement below Whitehall. It was not a bunker. It was simply a basement with some reinforced walls and steel plates for protection. Guides say a direct hit from a German bomb would have killed everyone inside.
After the war it was mostly untouched for decades. In the late 1970s, preservationists began to renovate and restore the area for the benefit of generations that had only read about the hardships.
You'll see the "map room" which was staffed 24/7 for the entire length of the war. Troop movements and fronts were marked with push pins and yarn. You also see Churchill's private quarters and the desk from which he made some of his most inspiring radio addresses.
In the gift shop, you'll see replicas of the red sign that is now becoming fashionable around the world but in Churchill's time was meant to steady the nerves of Londoners facing frequent bombing raids during the Battle of Britain. It simply reads "Keep Calm and Carry On."
A short distance from the Churchill War Rooms is another lesser-known attraction that could be added to a London layover visit: the Household Cavalry Museum and grounds.
These well-trained horses are part of the Queen's Life Guard. It's a great place to understand the pageantry behind some of the ceremony at Buckingham Palace. Admission fees are nominal.
At the very least, you can walk through the grounds on your way to Westminster Station from Whitehall. In front of the building, you will witness the scene depicted above--one wonders how many times someone ventured too close and suffered the fate about which the sign warns -- being kicked or bitten by a frightened horse.
Hours for the museum are 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily, but be sure to arrive prior to 4:45 p.m., which is the cutoff point for tours. The museum is closed Dec. 25-26 and Good Friday each year.
This scene was taken on an early July day in St. James's Park, which is adjacent to Buckingham Palace and not far from British Parliament (Tube stop: St. James's Park). Londoners retain much civic pride when it comes to their parks, and with good reason. St. James's Park is one of several magnificent places to stroll on a London layover. In fact, parks are among London's best free attractions.
Another famous green space worth savoring is Hyde Park, one of the Royal Parks that is home to several points of interest, including "Speakers Corner." This is the space dedicated to free speech, and ever since 1872 it has hosted anyone who wants to speak about anything, so long as they don't use obscene language.
Ever heard of the Hanging Gardens of Babylon? The closest thing to this ancient wonder in London is Kensington Roof Gardens, which hosts 70 full-sized trees, an English Woodland garden and a stocked flowing stream. It's the largest rooftop gardens in Europe. Although there is no admission charge, the site is closed to the public when someone books a private party here.
Booking a bus tour in London can be expensive for a budget London layover. Expect to pay about $40 USD for a single adult ticket that is good for 24 hours of hop on and hop off privileges. Since you don't have that long to spend here, it's tough to take full advantage of the benefits.
For just a little more money, you can buy a London Pass that covers admission to most major attractions for a given day. To explore this option further, read a full review of London Pass.
But many visitors to London love riding double-decker buses, and it's possible to do so at much less than what you'd pay for a sightseeing bus. Here's how to do it: purchase a paper bus ticket in Tube stations for under $10 USD and you'll have unlimited use of the red double-deckers for 24 hours. You can find maps for London bus routes online and print those that could be of use to you.
More Step-by-Step Budget Travel Tips
The London tube is a subway train system serving the city and suburbs of London. The tube is a smart, safe, cheap way to get around London—use it to see the tourist sights or hop on and ride to understand how the city is laid out. There are 275 tube stations (63 in central London)—it seems as if there is a tube stop everywhere, once you're looking.
Opened in 1890, the London tube is the oldest underground in the world, and entire blogs are dedicated to its current workings and history. Some detail current stoppages and delays, which drive many locals nuts; just relax and enjoy the ride if you're a traveler.
London has a total of 12 tube lines with trains running every few minutes between 5:30-3:30 a.m. Monday through Saturday, and 7:30-11:30 on Sundays, according to the official London Underground. Finding your way to the right tube station and the tube stop you need is remarkably easy, even without your own tube maps.
You'll want a tube map, though—get free tube maps at any underground station office. You can check out free tube maps online before you go, but you needn't download one to carry across the pond—tube maps are easy to grab at any train station, and you'll find tube maps posted generously on station walls.
When you hit your first London tube station (used to be Waterloo, above, and is now St. Pancras if you're coming in on the Eurostar train from France or Belgium), you'll see signs everywhere—overhead and on the walls—telling you what to do and where to buy London tube tickets. Tube workers are hanging around at ticket windows, ready to sell you passes and explain what you need—they're also manning turnstiles leading to tube tunnels, through which you can't pass until you've got a tube ticket.
One ticket equals one tube ride, which is great if you're going one place (and you know how to get there). Otherwise, buy a one or several day London tube passes or a credit card-sized Oyster card, which gives you a set amount of rides for at least a week, works on central London buses and segments of National Rail trains, and is hard to lose. My one-week Oyster pass was about 22 pounds in March 2006.
Small LED signs on station turnstiles are green if you can go through and red if you can't; tube workers stand patiently by and point that out, and they'll help if you can't get through.
When you do pass through the turnstiles, you'll first feed your ticket into a slot or pass your Oyster card across a pad; the ticket pops back out—hang on to it because you'll need to perform the procedure in reverse to get out of the train station at your destination.
London trains and platforms are described by the compass point to which they're bound depending on the tube line's direction, as in eastbound, northbound, westbound or southbound. Tunnels inside the tube station are marked with train line names and the compass direction of a given tube stop.
A readerboard on the front of a London train and signs on the tube stop platform show the train's final destination. By ascertaining the train's final London destination, you can find its line and, subsequently, whether your stop is on it. Each London train line/route has a color—as in red or brown—which makes it simple to follow its route on a map.
Find a London tube map to find the direction you're bound and follow signs to tube tunnels within the train station accordingly; follow the tunnel and you'll wind up on the right platform to board the right train going the right way.
Reading signs that look like temperature graphs in a London tube station, especially on platform walls, will help reassure you that you're in the right place and at the right tube stop. The station at which you are is marked with the equivalent of "You are here;" note the names of the next stations and where your stop is accordingly.
You might need to change trains to get where you're going—just check out the closest intersection on a tube map before you get on the train, get off at that station, and find the next train you need to take by going upstairs or up an escalator (stay to the right so busy commuters can pass) and following the signs to the right east, west, south, or northbound​ train tunnel marked with the name of the last stop on the line on which you need to travel.
And if you feel unsure of yourself, check out the wall graphs showing train stops, which you'll see everywhere on the platform for the train which you're about to board.
After you get on a London tube train, look overhead near the train doors and you'll see a graph on the inner tube wall showing the names of stops for the train you're on; the stop at which you just boarded will be marked. Look for the tube stop at which you want to get off and note the names of the stops around it, and count the number of times the train will stop before it reaches your destination.
Watch for your stop by counting stops or looking out the train doors when the train stops and reading the name of the stop on station walls (Oxford Circus in the picture above). Compare it to the graph overhead to understand where you are.
You might also hear announcements on the train's PA which will tell you where the train is about to stop seconds before it does. Sometimes you'll also hear an announcer saying, "Mind the gap."
Those amplified voices you hear saying, "Mind the gap" when you're on the London tube? "The gap" is the space between the train and the tube platform, created after the train stops. Nobody wants you to fall in the gap. 
Once you're on the London tube, relax and do some people watching. It's practically impossible to get lost at this point, and tube seats are comfy and pretty plentiful except at rush hours in the early morning and late afternoon. You can find folded jump seats next to the doors, and overhead grab bars exist in case you're standing up.
Many fellow riders, especially in summer, are tourists, just like you. The folks at the London Underground have some tips designed just for tourists using the London tube.
The London tube is remarkably clean and safe. Tube riders are going about their business, just like you are. Be polite, mind the gap and don't take up tons of room with your backpack, and you'll coexist with London tube riders perfectly.
The people at the London Underground have some tips to make riding the tube easy:
That's it—you're now a London tube pro. You'll find that many directions you're given when traveling in London mention a tube stop—makes it a snap to get around. The signs above black fenced stairs leading underground show you tube stops; simple to find. And most locals can tell you on what corner the nearest tube stop is.
A couple of things to remember about using the London tube:
