No visitor should miss out on a waterborne tour of the splendid canals of Amsterdam. The canals were declared a UNESCO monument in 2010. They aren't just a picturesque attraction—they were essential to defense and transport in the 17th century. Hundreds of canals were filled in nationwide to accommodate the new mode of transport when the automobile arrived, but Amsterdam has retained 165 of its historic canals, more than any other Dutch city. 
A canal tour makes for a wonderful first impression because the tour boats take in much of the monumental architecture that lines the Canal Belt, four concentric semicircles that loop around the the historic Center. Although any canal tour will be an experience to remember, the options are plentiful: hop aboard an open-top boat from the St. Nicolaas Boat Club, or charter a private boat or a special themed or catered tour.
Amsterdam's Historic Canals
Dozens of Amsterdam museums are devoted to the fine arts, which the Netherlands has pioneered for centuries. Rembrandt, a household name, has his own dedicated museum, the Rembrandt House Museum (Museum het Rembrandthuis). Its restored interior reproduces the atmosphere of the artist's former residence, but his classic De Nachtwacht resides at the Rijksmuseum, one of Amsterdam's top museums, next to thousands of invaluable masterworks across the scope of Dutch art history.
Amsterdam promises just as much for lovers of modern art: Its most visited museum, the Van Gogh Museum, is a tribute to the post-impressionist painter whose inventive technique and sympathetic subject matter have earned him countless admirers. The Stedelijk Museum has reopened for another temporary exhibit despite its renovation and is another can't-miss destination for modern art enthusiasts. Its Erezaal (Hall of Honor) is bedecked with classic canvases from Henri Matisse, Piet Mondrian, Yves Klein and other celebrated artists.
More Amsterdam Art Museums
The Netherlands didn't escape the horrors of World War II. Memorials like the Dutch National Monument, the Homomonument and others commemorate the victims of this war, and three spectacular museums are devoted in whole or in part to this period.
The Anne Frank House is one such museum. Visitors can explore the secret annex where Anne hid for years with her parents, sister and three others as she composed her famous diary. Even the Gestapo soldiers who found them could scarcely believe the cramped existence these people lived out in the clandestine rooms. Brave individuals like the couple who harbored the Franks were part of the Dutch Resistance movement, and a museum is also dedicated to them: the Verzetsmuseum. It documents the tireless attempts of the resistance members to thwart the Nazis and has been voted the best historical museum in the Netherlands. The Jewish Historical Museum retells how the Holocaust devastated Jewish communities in the Netherlands and how these communities have rebuilt themselves in its wake. Few visitors are left unmoved by the powerful exhibits at these museums.
Amsterdam History
Tulips and other bulb flowers are the pride of the Netherlands, and nowhere is this more evident than at Keukenhof. The world famous bulb flower park in Lisse is 35 to 40 minutes by bus from Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. Stroll past rows upon rows of vibrantly hued tulips in this outdoor wonderland. Flower lovers come from far and wide to admire the seasonal blooms.
If you can't make it for tulip season, don't despair—there are other flowers year-round. The Amsterdam Tulip Museum is a temple to the Netherlands' favorite flower with exhibits that show off its manifold breeds. It revisits the cultural history of the tulip from "tulipmania" to the present. The Bloemenmarkt (Flower Market) is a complex of stalls that float atop a canal for an utterly unique experience. Specially-packed tulip and other bulbs are available for international tourists to take safely back to their home countries. There's also the Hortus Botanicus Amsterdam, whose flower and plant exhibits are sure to please any botanically-inclined visitor.
Take a stroll in De Wallen, Amsterdam's red light district, to see what all the fuss is about ... and learn that there's more to this fabled district than the sex tourism it attracts. The red-lit windows where sex workers primp are often attached to historic townhouses, and monumental architecture abounds in this sliver of the city. The Oude Kerk (Old Church) was established in 1306 and presides over its own square. Museum Ons' Lieve Heer op Solder (Our Lord in the Attic) is a former clandestine church sequestered in a townhouse attic. It testifies to a time when Catholic worship was forbidden—before the Netherlands became known worldwide as a beacon of tolerance. De Wallen is also home to a number of fine restaurants, and it's just a stone's throw from the diverse eateries of Amsterdam Chinatown.
And then, of course, there's the adult entertainment. The live sex shows at Casa Rosso and Bananenbar are popular with couples as well as bachelor and bachelorette parties and others, but performance reviews are ambivalent. Prostitution isn't limited to "windows." There are also brothels and escort services that cater to more discreet clients. Be aware that prostitution in Amsterdam is not without its problems behind the scenes. Some sex workers are still coerced into the trade. Look for the "Pimp-Free Zone" stickers on window brothels for responsible fun. Take an informative tour of De Wallen with a former sex worker for a behind-the-scenes look at Dutch prostitution.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
Just about everyone cycles in Amsterdam and not just for fun. Fifty percent of locals use their bikes daily, and rush hour bike lanes teem with office workers in suits, students headed to class, and parents with tots piled into children's seats. Join the locals for a taste of this daily ritual and discover the city on its favorite means of transport.
Rental bikes are available all over town, from inconspicuous Dutch omafietsen (also known as "Dutch bikes") to ones that clearly hail from a rental company—an effective way of warning locals that a possibly inexperienced cyclist is at the handlebars. Specialized bike maps like the Amsterdam op de fiets map ("Amsterdam by Bicycle," available for EUR 4 at the VVV tourist information center) are an indispensable resource for first-time cyclists in Amsterdam.
Amsterdam Bike Safety
Traditional Dutch cuisine typically consists of comfort food to warm one's insides in the cold season, which can feel eternal some years, but favorites like erwtensoep (split pea soup) and stamppot boerenkool (mashed potatoes streaked with curly kale) are eaten all year. Pancakes are treated like pizza, loaded with extras like ham and bacon. Wheels of artisanal Gouda stare out at window shoppers from the best cheese vendors, and French fries are consumed in abundance.
Sometimes it's nice to dip into more exotic fare. This is where two of the Netherlands' former colonies—vastly distant countries—come in: Indonesia and Suriname. The rijsttafel, a Dutch colonial invention that assembles dishes from all over Indonesia, is a veritable attraction in itself. Dozens of tapas-sized portions allow diners to sample a variety of Indonesian recipes.
Surinamese is a South American cuisine spiked with Afro-Caribbean, South Asian, Indonesian and Chinese flavors, courtesy of its intensely multicultural population. Surinamese eateries are typically casual affairs that dole out impossible portions for moderate prices. Both cuisines are rare outside their home countries, so the opportunity to experience them is one that shouldn't be missed.
Tastes of Amsterdam
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson 
I once met a woman who'd come to visit a relative in a city 40 minutes south of Amsterdam. She didn't realize until the final day of her two-week trip how effortless it is to travel between cities and towns in the Netherlands. The most populous cities are concentrated in the central west, the so-called "Randstad." Train travel to these cities—Haarlem, Delft, Leiden and others—is a cinch. Most cities in the Randstad are less than an hour from Amsterdam by train, and hardly any city in the Netherlands is farther away than three hours. This makes the capital a convenient hub for day-trippers to anywhere in the country.
But where to start? A day trip I like to recommend to first-time visitors is Zaanse Schans, a town that's chock-full of traditional Dutch crafts and architecture. It offers six windmills, a wooden shoe workshop, a cheese farm and more. Ceramics lovers shouldn't miss the historic center of Delft where the beloved "Delft blue" porcelain is produced. The list of wonderful cities and towns to see in the Randstad alone is endless, so read up in advance to find your ideal day trip from Amsterdam.
Day Trip Resources
Amsterdam is one of those rare places where you can purchase reputable quality weed and/or hash in a public transaction and not be branded a criminal. Almost half a million travelers come to Amsterdam each year expressly because of its cannabis coffee shops, and a quarter of all visitors step into a coffee shop at least once on their trip.
These establishments haven't turned the city into a den of depravity—far from it. For cannabis smokers, coffee shops are simply a laid-back alternative to cafes. You can relax with a joint and a cup of coffee, share a "space cake" with friends, or even have a full post-smoke meal. I find that individual coffee shops can even be attractions in themselves, not unlike small-scale museums with a focus on an alternative culture and its self-expression. Each has its own unique atmosphere and scene, and a few are veritable institutions. See my list of the top three coffee shops in Amsterdam to learn more about these industry leaders.
Amsterdam for Cannabis Smokers
Amsterdam is often overshadowed as a fashion capital by the nearby sartorial stars of Paris and Antwerp, but it sure is a fun place to shop. Retail outlets line the P.C. Hooftstraat—think Prada, Gucci and Versace. Unique, independent boutiques fill the Nine Streets area. Amsterdam administers retail therapy to shoppers of all stripes.
It also has an abundant share of specialty shops from toiletries to interior decor, and my favorite: culinary delicacies. Stroll down Nieuwendijk and Haarlemmerstraat, both just minutes from Central Station, for a sample of the fine specialty food stores in town, from cheese, oil and salt specialists to international importers.
Some locals will claim that there's no better place to drop a few euros than the beloved outdoor markets of Amsterdam. From fashion and art and antiques to food, there's a market for it. Most are open year-round, but April to September is peak season thanks to the abundance of sunny days.
Amsterdam for Shoppers
  Take a Canal Tour  
  Explore Dutch Art From the Old Masters to Mondriaan  
  Remember Anne Frank and the Dutch World War II Experience  
  Stop and Smell the Flowers  
  Explore De Wallen  
  Hop on a Bicycle  
  Taste Traditional Dutch Cuisine and That of its Former Colonies  
  Get Out of Town  
  Experience the Cannabis Coffeeshop Culture  
  Buy Yourself Happy at Amsterdam's Retail Hot Spots  
Amsterdam's Western Canal Belt in Pictures
Amsterdam's Eastern Canal Best in Pictures
Amsterdam Canal House Museums
Hermitage Amsterdam
Cobra Museum of Modern Art (Amstelveen)
Amsterdam Museum
How to Get to Keukenhof
Is It Safe for Tourists to See Amsterdam by Bike?
Top 10 Tips for Bike Safety
Visual Guide to Bike Safety in Amsterdam
Best of Amsterdam Chinatown
Chocolate Lovers' Guide to Amsterdam
Best Bakeries in Amsterdam
Journey Planner for Dutch Public Transportation
How to Reach the Keukenhof Tulip Park
Best International Day and Weekend Trips from Amsterdam
Amsterdam Coffeeshop Dos and Don'ts
Cannabis-Themed Attractions in Amsterdam
Review of Barney's Coffeeshop
Top 10 Places in Shop in Amsterdam
Best Affordable Gifts from Amsterdam
Best Children's Stores in Amsterdam
Amsterdam is the capital and largest city of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. It derives its name from the fact that it is situated where the Amstel River was joined by a sluice dam built around 1240.
Amsterdam is one of Europe's great destinations. The city is built around semi-circular rings of canals crossed by over 400 bridges. People are prone to calling it the "Venice of the North" but Amsterdam takes a back seat to no one in the travel interest department.
The Netherlands have a temperate maritime climate with cool winters and mild summers. The best weather in Amsterdam is April-October. April and May are good for viewing those famous tulips. Summer is more bearable for those who can't take the heat of the Mediterranean coast in August. Winter can be cold, soggy and gray, but who could resist canal skating or sitting around the fireplace in a medieval Dutch home with a hot toddy in hand? Consult Amsterdam climate and precipitation charts for a historic look at Amsterdam's Weather and historic climate.
Yes, there really were quite a number of Old Dutch masters. They knew the light. My favorites are portraits of peasant life infused by the ruddy glow of firelight, or maybe it's Holland's famous gin (genever).
Amsterdam, as you can imagine, has numerous art museums. Rembrandt is well represented at the Rijksmuseum, along with other important Dutch artists. The Hermitage Amsterdam is housed in a building that was an old folks home for 324 years and includes Hermitage for children.The Van Gogh museum is a must for art lovers as well, and the house of Anne Frank museum should be a must for everyone who might be inclined to view arbitrary hate as a solution to perceived social problems. See Amsterdam Museums for more.
By Train: There is a train station inside the Airport's central hall under Schiphol Plaza offering direct train services from the airport to Amsterdam Centraal station, as well as trains to other destinations including Berlin, Germany.
Taxi: You can book at Schiphol Travel Taxi online.
Want to know more about transportation? See Getting from Amsterdam to Schiphol Airport.
The Amsterdam Schiphol Airport site has a route planner that covers all types of transportation to the airport
The Sheraton Schiphol is located inside the airport compound, linked to the terminal by covered walkway. A new hotel, citizenM, is also directly connected to the airport terminals and train station.
All of Holland is accessible from Amsterdam Airport. Besides Amsterdam itself, we like Haarlem, which is very close by, and nearly all of Noord-Holland, north of Amsterdam. Of course, Belgium, Luxembourg , and Germany aren't far away either: six trains a day depart for Berlin from the airport rail station, taking just over six hours reach their destination.
Amsterdam Layover? No problem.
Getting stuck in an airport is every traveler's nightmare--unless they're in Amsterdam. Amsterdam Schiphol is one of the best places on earth of layovers. There's plenty of excellent shopping, but the Dutch hub offers much more than just duty-free cigarettes and discounted booze. Here are some highlights.
1. RijksmuseumThe world-renowned Rijksmuseum has a small branch at the airport--and the entry is completely free. The rotating exhibits highlight aspects of Dutch culture. Plus, the museum shop offers a delightful alternative to the tacky souvenirs ubiquitous in airports.2. Holland CasinoHaven't spent enough money on your flight? Want to rid yourself of the excess? Try your luck: Departure Hall 2 – behind Passport Control – between Gates E and F.3. Panorama TerraceIf you have some extra time, consider stepping outside. The terrace features an old propeller plane, which you can enter and tour for free.4. Airport ParkThis green lounge in Terminal D takes its inspiration from nature. Sure, the grass is AstroTurf and the birdsong is recorded. Still, with bean bag chairs, chaises lounges, and stationery bikes--all available for free--who's complaining? You can also step outside on the small terrace for a breath of fresh air.5. YotelRent a bed by the hour. No, it's not as seedy as it sounds. At Yotel, a love child of designer furniture shop and a Tokyo capsule hotel, you can book a room for as little as four hours. If you want to watch TV, doze off and shower before the next flight, this is the place.If you have more than 5 hours, you might want to consider visiting Amsterdam. From the airport's train station, reaching the city center takes less than 30 minutes.
Think bicycles, trams, boats, and buses. You probably don't want to drive here. But then again you don't have to; the public transportation options are easy, fast, and in the case of canal boats, sometimes romantic.
Amsterdam is divided into zones. A ticket to ride within a single zone costs 1.60 Euros. Each additional zone crossed costs .80 Euro. You can get discount (stripcard or "strippencard") cards at tobacconists as well as GVB (the transport company) outlets. Each strip on the card represents a single journey. If you ride the bus or tram a lot, you can get a one, two or three-day pass at the same outlets as well.
For a small fee you can glide to many tourist destinations in Central Amsterdam on the Canal Bus. Your ticket to ride is good all day and until noon the next.Kids ride for 11 Euros.
Amsterdam's Central Station is smack in the middle of the concentric circle of canals. It is a busy station, and you might think of reserving tickets in advance for your trip out of Amsterdam.
The main Amsterdam Airport is Schiphol. The train is the fastest and most convenient way to get to Schiphol. From Schiphol, you can get trains to anywhere in the Netherlands.
Dangers: Be aware that pickpockets frequent the train from Schiphol to the central station, as well as ATM locations.
Get detailed information on transportation in Amsterdam from our Amsterdam transportation category.
To get to Amsterdam from London, see How to Get from London to Amsterdam.
Try Indonesian rijsttafel, a "rice table" that came to Amsterdam as a result of Dutch colonial exploits. Beware that many restaurants have adjusted seasonings toward the bland to fit local and tourist taste, so the food may not be as authentic as you think. Here are some suggestions for where to eat it: Best Indonesian Restaurants in Amsterdam.
As in US cities, Amsterdam has a wealth of different cuisines represented. You'll be able to eat outside or in a garden in many restaurants in the summer.
The Concertgebouw is considered to have some of the best acoustics in the world, as well as being home to one of the greatest orchestras.
Begun as an herb garden for doctors and pharmacists in 1682, the Amsterdam Botanical Garden grew when it added East India Company's exotic offerings. Now there's tons of greenhouses and a peaceful cafe.
The Royal Palace is a 17th-century elaborate town hall turned into a royal palace by Napoleon in 1808, from whence comes the large collection of Empire style furniture, chandeliers, and clocks. The palace is still used for official functions by the Queen. In the Summer the palace is open to the public.
Amsterdam is represented in the devilishly clever Crumpled Cities Maps of Europe
For more Amsterdam, see our Amsterdam Travel Directory for information on all the important museums, lodging, restaurants, printable maps, and tourist sights in Amsterdam. Also, see the about.com site completely devoted to Amsterdam.
  When to Go  
  Amsterdam Art and Museums  
  Getting To Amsterdam Airport  
  Hotels Near Schiphol Airport  
  Destinations Near the Airport  
  Things to Do  
  Amsterdam Transportation  
  How Trams and Buses Work  
  The Canal Bus  
  Airports and Trains  
  More Transportation Information  
  Food in Amsterdam  
  Concerts  
  Botanical Garden  
  Het Koninklijk Paleis te Amsterdam (The Royal Palace of Amsterdam)  
  Suggested Map  
The Holland America Line Nieuw Amsterdam has a dozen bars and lounges spread over 11 decks. This deluxe mid-sized ship carries over 2,100 guests and has simple, elegant decor throughout the interiors of the ship and a classic look outdoors. 
Explorations Cafe, the specialty coffee bar, opens as early as 7:00 am, and some of the other bars open at 9:00 am. Many of the cruise ship's bars do not close until the early morning hours. Several venues have live music in the evening for either listening or dancing.
Nieuw Amsterdam guests staying in the Deluxe Verandah Suites or Penthouse Verandah Suites have key access to a private area on deck 7 called the Neptune Lounge. This lounge features refreshments throughout the day and is a good place to relax and socialize with other suite guests.
While on a Mediterranean cruise on the Nieuw Amsterdam cruise ship, we had the opportunity to try out most of these.
The Casino Bar on the Nieuw Amsterdam is found on deck 2 next to the casino. It serves as the cruise ship's sports bar, and has several flat screen televisions tuned into ESPN or other sports networks.
The Casino Bar usually opens about 5 pm and stays open until closing time. In addition to the bar seats, it also has comfortable chairs and cocktail table seating.
The Crow's Nest is the large Nieuw Amsterdam observation bar forward on deck 11. It offers expansive ocean views, much like the captain sees from the navigation bridge. The Crow's Nest bar usually opens before lunch (about 10 am), and it is in the same area as the library, computer area, and the Explorations Cafe Coffee Bar. The area has wonderful leather lounge chairs, and guests can usually be found reading (or napping) when the ship is at sea.
The Crow's Nest is also a popular place for guests to read the wide variety of library books available onboard. Those who like to keep up with what's going on in the world will appreciate one of the daily newspapers printed by the ship and found in the library/Crow's Nest area.
Like the Crow's Nest, the Explorations Cafe Coffee Bar is found forward on deck 11. It usually opens about 7:00 am for those who want a specialty coffee and are willing to pay extra for it. The coffee bar also serves snacks like muffins and brownies to go along with the coffee drinks.
The library and computers with Internet access are also found next to the Explorations Cafe Coffee Bar.
The Explorer's Lounge is found mid-ship on deck 2 on the Nieuw Amsterdam. It has a gorgeous expansive piece of artwork along one wall that is an image of New York City. History buffs will remember that New York City was originally settled by the Dutch in the 16th century and named New Amsterdam.
On our Mediterranean cruise on the Nieuw Amsterdam, a classical string quartet performed in the Explorer's Lounge most evenings, making for a quiet place to have a drink and enjoy the music.​
The Lido Bar is outdoors on deck 9 next to the Lido Pool. The casual bar has both table and bar seating. I love the funky bar stools shaped like fish. You sit on the fish's tail! The Lido Bar opens early in the morning (about 9:00 am) and stays open until about 10 pm for those who like to have an after-dinner drink outdoors in a casual seating.
Northern Lights is perfect for those Nieuw Amsterdam guests who like to dance and party into the late night hours. The disco/dance club doesn't open until 9 pm but stays open as long as there are those who want to listen to the DJ's music or dance.
The Northern Lights decor is very modern, and the dance floor is large.
The Ocean Bar is on deck 3 and looks down on the atrium. On our cruise, the 4 pm to 5 pm Nieuw Amsterdam happy hour was well-attended, and the Ocean Bar had live music most evenings before dinner. The bar also has a small dance floor.
The small Piano Bar on the Nieuw Amsterdam was packed most evenings on our Mediterranean cruise. The pianist plays a variety of fun piano music, with each evening featuring a different decade like the 40's, 50's, 60's, 70's, or 80's. Other nights are devoted to Gershwin, Billy Joel, Elton John, or other famous pianists.
The piano bar has seating both around the piano and at cocktail tables nearby.
The Pinnacle Bar is across from the Pinnacle steakhouse restaurant on deck 2 of the Nieuw Amsterdam. The bar serves premium martinis and other drinks as well as regular cocktails.
The Queen's Lounge on the Nieuw Amsterdam is in the Culinary Arts Center on deck 2 next to the Northern Lights disco and the casino. Like Northern Lights, it usually doesn't open until about 9:00 pm and stays open late.
The adults-only Sea View Pool and Bar are aft on deck 9 behind the Lido Restaurant. This area is very popular for those who like to be away from the kids and family groups.
The Silk Den was my favorite bar on the Nieuw Amsterdam. I loved the way that drinks like martinis and Cosmopolitans were served in a fancy glass surrounded by ice. No danger of your drink getting warm!
It is found mid-ship on deck 11 across from the Tamarind Restaurant, but you do not have to be dining in Tamarind to enjoy a drink at Silk Den. This bar has marvelous ocean views, and if the sliding roof is open on the Lido pool, you get great views of the activity around the pool area.
The Silk Den has a lovely Asian decor and also has small semi-private alcoves that are perfect for small groups or couples.
  Nieuw Amsterdam - Casino Bar  
  Nieuw Amsterdam - Crow's Nest  
  Nieuw Amsterdam - Explorations Cafe Coffee Bar  
  Nieuw Amsterdam - Explorer's Lounge  
  Nieuw Amsterdam - Lido Bar  
  Nieuw Amsterdam - Northern Lights Disco and Bar  
  Nieuw Amsterdam - Ocean Bar  
  Nieuw Amsterdam - Piano Bar  
  Nieuw Amsterdam - Pinnacle Bar  
  Nieuw Amsterdam - Queen's Lounge  
  Nieuw Amsterdam - Sea View Bar  
  Nieuw Amsterdam - Silk Den  
The Mediterranean Sea is one of the best places in the world to cruise. The region is filled with history, fascinating cities, interesting architecture, spectacular natural sites, and quaint towns and villages.
My mom and I cruised for 12 days on the Holland America Nieuw Amsterdam in early June and enjoyed the nearly perfect weather and 10 diverse ports of call. We embarked in Venice and sailed to Barcelona, enjoying the ship and the many different places we visited.
The Nieuw Amsterdam had overnight visits in both Venice and Barcelona. Our voyage covered 2,351 nautical miles, and the ship was full with 2,106 guests. The Nieuw Amsterdam used over 33,500 gallons of diesel fuel per day, and the passengers and crew used 220,000 gallons of potable fresh water per day. (Note: Since the ship can produce 540,000 gallons of potable water per day, we were not in any danger of running out.)
Our overnight flight from Atlanta arrived in Venice about lunch time and we easily found the Holland America representative for our bus transfer to the ship. Since we had filled out all our paperwork in advance, embarkation was quick and easy, and we were in our cabins by 1:30 in the afternoon.
While waiting for the bags to arrive in our balcony cabin (#7081), we went and ate lunch. Then I explored the ship while mom took a short nap and unpacked. We attended a wine sampling at 6:30 pm ($2 for about 2 swallows) at the contemporary Pinnacle Bar before dinner. The ship was having a pool deck barbecue, so instead of getting all dressed up, we just ate outside and had good ribs, steak, and other barbecue standards. Very tasty and a good start to our cruise vacation.
After dinner, mom and I put on our walking shoes and took the shuttle bus to the "people mover", a monorail train that links the Venice maritime port with the Piazzale Roma, which is the bus and water taxi terminal. You can't go any further via taxi/bus/car into Venice than Piazzale Roma. We bought a couple of vaporetto (water taxi) tickets and rode to St. Mark's Square. We were going to get a drink but decided against it, so walked around a little and then took another water taxi back to the Piazzale Roma, followed by another 1 euro ride on the people mover. The shuttle had quit running at 8:00 pm, so mom and I had to walk for about 15-20 minutes from the people mover back to the ship, but the walk was flat and it was a gorgeous night. The Nieuw Amsterdam featured a nighttime gondola serenade as one of the shore excursions, and this was a lovely night to be exploring the magical canals and narrow streets of Venice on a gondola, vaporetto, or on foot.
It wasn't long after we got back to the cabin at 10:30 before we were both asleep. Our goal was accomplished--to not go to bed TOO early on our first night in Europe! The Nieuw Amsterdam sailed for Dubrovnik the next day after lunch.
Our first full day on our Mediterranean cruise in Europe, we were up early since the Nieuw Amsterdam was sailing away from Venice right after lunch. We ate breakfast and took the shuttle to the monorail/people mover again. We were amazed to see dozens of people lined up to get on the people mover. Four new cruise ships had arrived in the early morning hours, and many of their passengers had chosen to "do their own thing" and not take a ship's transfer to the airport, train station, or local hotel. Since the authorities didn't seem to allow taxis into the port unless they were carrying passengers, travelers have to make their way to the Piazzale Roma to get transport off the island of Venice. Families and couples were all dragging their bags to the people mover, so the line was very long and agonizingly slow.
The people jam at the monorail took longer than we planned, so we decided to just explore the wonderful streets and alleyways between the Piazzale Roma and the Rialto Bridge rather than ride the vaporetto. It was a beautiful Saturday morning, and we spent a couple of hours wandering around and getting a few times, returning to the ship at noon. Locals were out doing their shopping, and we saw a few tourists, but not as many as we might have on the St. Mark's side of the Grand Canal. Venice is a great city for walking and you can't get too lost since you will end up at a canal or a sign with directions to one of the most popular tourist sites. Holland America provided useful maps of all the ports of call, and they came in very handy everywhere we visited.
The Nieuw Amsterdam had several tempting shore excursions, but we had done most of them on previous visits. Those who haven't been to Venice before should take one gondola ride, just to say you've done it. In addition, a guided walking tour of the city or of one of the museums from the ship can be very interesting if you don't enjoy exploring on your own. The ship also had excursions to Murano to see the glassblowing workshops and to Burano to view the quaint homes and lace making.
After a delicious lunch of pasta and salad, we went up to the top deck to watch the sail away from Venice, one of the best in the world. Seeing the city laid out below the huge ship was mesmerizing. After the sail away, we had the mandatory lifeboat drill. Mom and I had the cabin steward ice down our champagne, so we sipped it during the afternoon while we were resting and getting ready for our first formal night. I ordered room service shrimp cocktail and a cheese plate to go along with the ice cold champagne. A nice, easy afternoon on the Mediterranean Sea!
Dinner was the first formal night, so we got dolled up and went to dinner at 7 pm. Holland America has both first and second fixed seating dinner, as well as "as you wish"/anytime dining, which mom and I selected. You can go anytime between 5:30 and 9:30, but they prefer you make a reservation. So mom and I made a 7 pm reservation, and we ended up at a table for 10 with two couples from Toronto, one couple from California, and an 80-year old lady traveling alone from the Netherlands. Very nice dinner. I had a fish/shrimp cake, an Italian Pistou soup with beans/pasta/veggies that reminded me of the one at Olive Garden Restaurant, lobster and a small filet combination, and warm strawberry crumble with ice cream for dessert. Mom had the melon/papaya salad, creamy chicken dumpling soup, and lamb chops. All the food was good, and we enjoyed the company.
After dinner, we went to the show, which was four young American singers from Atlanta, Hawaii, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. They are also in the production shows, but the name of their quartet is Cantare, and they were excellent. We were so glad we went since they harmonized well and sang a good mixture of songs. The audience all seemed to agree that they were a really terrific group. They also used a slide show of huge photos as their backdrop and had organized choreography as they sang.
Since we were still on Georgia time, we didn't turn off the light until 12:30 am. The next day we were going to be in Dubrovnik, Croatia.
The Sunday the Nieuw Amsterdam was in Dubrovnik, Croatia was a gorgeous day, sunny and very warm. High was supposed to be 76, but it seemed much warmer. The old city of Dubrovnik is surrounded by thick, tall walls, so the city holds in the heat. Plus, the streets are paved with marble, which seems to radiate heat in the Mediterranean sun. Mom and I rode the shuttle bus into Dubrovnik ($14 round trip per person), and it dropped us off right at the main gate to the old city.
We had both been to Dubrovnik before and had walked the wall surrounding the city. Unless you have mobility problems (many steps), this is an excellent way to get great views of the city and the blue sea beyond. You will need some local money or a credit card to buy a ticket. Many people stand in line to buy tickets to access the wall right inside the main gate, but there are other entrances to the wall on the other side of the city (past the clock tower and on the way to the Dominican monastery) with no lines. We wandered around, taking in the sights and all the people. Like Venice, there were several ships in port, making for crowded streets. We saw many people carrying towels to go to the beach, but it didn't look like much to us.
We stopped and sat in the shade quite a bit and loved watching all the other tourists. After a while, we decided to sit in a restaurant and have a snack and a beer. We found one in a prime location, and it thankfully had a nice breeze. Very pleasant, and we split a very small pizza and drank a local draft beer.
The Nieuw Amsterdam offered 10 interesting excursions, some of which stayed in Dubrovnik while others traveled away from the city to other parts of Croatia like the seaside village of Cavtat or the Konavle region. Those looking for something active could go biking or sea kayaking.
Returning to the ship about 2 pm, I took a nap (guess it was the beer) before we went up to the Terrace Grill for a late lunch since dinner was not until 7 pm. Walking around the Nieuw Amsterdam, it looked like most everyone was on full-day shore excursions or were still in town. The ship had several afternoon activities such as bridge playing, trivia, exercise classes, and computer classes, so those who were back onboard had plenty to keep them entertained.
After getting cleaned up for dinner, mom and I went to the Ocean Bar on the ship to listen to live music and have a cocktail. We were surprised to only find about eight other people in the bar. Obviously, we didn't find the one that was popular, although our drinks (green apple martini for mom and a cosmopolitan with a splash of grapefruit juice for me) were very good.
Dinner was in the Manhattan dining room again. We ate at a table for eight with a young couple from California (in their 20's), a retired couple from Naples, Florida; and a retired couple from Kansas City, Kansas. I had an Asian chicken pot sticker, salad, grilled turbot, and pear crepes. Mom had the pork tenderloin. We stayed for dinner for a long time. Always fun to talk with new people, and the couple from Naples had been on back-to-back cruises on the Nieuw Amsterdam. The ship alternates eastern and western Mediterranean cruises, so they only had two ports visited twice on their 24-day cruise--Santorini and Venice.
We weren't sure whether we would like the show, but it turned out to be very good. An Irish couple sang and played a variety of music. They were called "LiveWire", and his name was Michael and hers was Claire. They had been married since 2000, and she played the electric violin and he played guitar and an Irish drum/percussion instrument. They were quite funny, and had Celtic music (like Danny Boy, Molly Maguire, and Riverdance), along with Fiddler on the Roof and other melodies. Fun.
We were going to lose an hour, so it was after 1 am when we got to bed. Another late night. But, we got to sleep late the next day because the ship didn't dock in Corfu, Greece until 10 am.
Corfu is a Greek island in the Ionian Sea, which is the section of the Mediterranean Sea between Italy and Greece. It is also known as Kerkira and is much greener than many of the Greek islands further south. Corfu is also filled with gorgeous flowers like bougainvillea, oleander, and huge purple jacarandas. The old town has two huge forts and a large pedestrian shopping area. At one time the British occupied the island, and about 6,000 British mostly retired ex-pats live on the island today.
Holland America had a half dozen Corfu shore excursions, three of which visited the Achillion Palace built by Empress Elisabeth of Austria, better known as Sisi. We had toured this home a few years ago when on Corfu, and it is particularly interesting when you go to Vienna and elsewhere in Austria and learn more about this fascinating woman. Some passengers took a 4-wheel-drive safari around the island, giving them a chance to see the countryside. We decided to just explore the old town and pedestrian shopping area on our own.
Mom and I slept in and ate a leisurely breakfast before the Nieuw Amsterdam arrived in Corfu at 10 am. We took the free shuttle bus off the pier and then transferred to a shuttle into old Corfu town. The shuttle bus was $8 each way and it was about a 20-minute ride. We were dropped off near the old fortress and toured it (4 euros each) before strolling the few blocks into town. The fortress had the interesting Greek church seen in this photo, but the hospital and much of the fort was on a high hill, which was too hard to climb for us old folks, especially in the hot sun.
We strolled the streets of Corfu, I found an ATM to get some euros, and mom bought some souvenirs and a Greek pastry made with honey and sesame seeds that we split. The local items seemed to be mostly a kumquat liqueur kind of like Limoncello but sweeter, bath sponges, and soap and other products made from olive oil. Since 30% of the island of Corfu is covered with olive trees, I guess we weren't surprised!
We found an outdoor cafe with a breeze and shade and tried a "Corfu fresh beer", which was an unfiltered, unpasteurized ale. Different than our usual Pilsner, but tasty after the first couple of sips. More importantly, it was ice cold and hit the spot. After about four hours in town, we were very hot and tired so went back to the ship for a late lunch. I had Mexican chicken fajitas and mom had spaghetti from the Lido buffet.
Activities afternoon on the Nieuw Amsterdam included trivia, tea time, bridge, digital classes, fitness classes, or just sitting by the pool in the sun (or shade).
Mom and I had a reservation at the Pinnacle Grill for dinner. Before dinner, we tried another bar but found no one there either. We later determined that our fellow travelers were going to the happy hour between 4 and 5 pm rather than just before dinner. Dinner was at 7:00 pm and was delicious. The menu had many items we wanted to try but didn't have room. The meal started with a mushroom cappuccino amuse and a selection of bread and three different kinds of butter (red pepper, garlic, and plain). Mom had the French onion soup and grilled lobster with drawn butter. She got two large lobster tails--way too much for her. I got crab cakes with a spicy chili sauce and "sea and land", which was two large grilled prawns and a 7-ounce filet. My filet was good and had a nice flavor, but mom's lobster tails were done perfectly. We split a chocolate volcano cake, which was marvelous, and plenty enough for two people. All in all, a very good meal and excellent atmosphere and service.
After dinner, we strolled through the shops and checked out some of the bars, which seemed to be busier than earlier in the evening. They were showing a movie in the theater, followed by the Filipino crew show, which was starting at 11 pm--too late for us since we had an early day in Cephalonia (Kefalonia) the next morning.
Cephalonia (also spelled Kephalonia or Kefalonia) is the largest island in the Ionian Sea. People often ask why things are spelled so many different ways in countries like Greece. The answer is simple--the Greek alphabet is different than our Latin one. Therefore, when towns or island names are written in English letters rather than Greek, there is no specifically defined spelling. Makes sense, doesn't it?
The Nieuw Amsterdam docked before 7 am at Argostoli, which is the capital and administrative center. Argostoli features a very protected harbor and was once one of the busiest ports in Greece. Cephalonia suffered major damage and German occupation during World War II. What the Germans didn't destroy the earthquake of 1953 did, with the result being a leveling of the town of Argostoli. So it doesn't have the old buildings that Corfu did. It does have the famous Drapanos stone bridge built in 1813 that connects Argostoli to the opposite coast of the harbor.
The Nieuw Amsterdam had three shore excursions from Argostoli. Like at most ports of call, the easiest (least walking) tour was a driving highlights tour of the island of Cephalonia, which included stops at Fiscardo and Sami. The second visited a monastery and a village rebuilt in the neo-classical style after the 1953 earthquake that destroyed much of the island. The third tour was well-suited for those who love natural wonders and was a chance to visit the famous Drogati cave and ride a small boat in the underground Melissani lake.
Mom and I had visited the famous Melissani Cave and did a driving tour of the island when we were last there. I had also been to the lovely resort town of Fiscardo, so we were content to leave the ship at about 9:15 and just wander around the Argostoli shopping area and have coffee/diet coke and watch all the other tourists walk by. We also took a 5 euro ride on the "Argostoli Express", which is one of those small motorized trains like they have at fairs and in Rudesheim, Germany. It was a 25-minute ride and allowed us to see the parts of the town we didn't walk through.
We returned to the ship about 12:30 and ate lunch, followed by a relaxing afternoon. Mom read her book and I downloaded photos. We went to our third bar, the Crow's Nest on deck 11 forward, before dinner. It was busier than the other 2 bars and had a live guitarist. The library is next to the bar, so we used the time to read the American newspapers.
As usual, the ship continued to have numerous, varied onboard activities for those who either wanted to stay onboard or who only planned to spend a half-day in the town like we did. The fitness center had classes in both the morning and the afternoon, and the party planner led a walking tour of all the lovely fresh flowers on the Nieuw Amsterdam.
Dinner was in the main dining room, and we had a window table with a couple from England and another couple from Texas. Fun evening. I had tomato and mozzarella salad, followed by a green salad with pecans, Dover sole, and chocolate chip ice cream. Mom had the tomato and mozzarella salad and the lamb skewers.
After dinner, we went to the production show. It was very good and titled, "Avalon Ballroom". The show featured the four guys who sang the first night (Cantare), along with two women singers and a couple of ballroom dancers. The orchestra was the real star since it had at least a dozen members, one of the largest I've ever seen on a ship. Anyway, it was a good show, and all the singers did a good job, as did the dancing couple.
After the production show, we were in bed by midnight, anxiously awaiting the chance to visit one of the most fascinating islands in the world the next day--Santorini, Greece.
The next morning, we approached Santorini (population of the island is about 12,000, along with millions of tourists) about 7:30 in the morning, and stopped in the ancient lagoon-like caldera about 9:15. The captain couldn't drop the anchor because the water was too deep, so he had to keep the engines moving all day to hold the ship in place.
Today the island is crescent-shaped around the caldera, but was once a solid mass and called Thira. In about 1500 BC, the volcanic island exploded and 32 square miles of it sank over 1,000 feet into the ocean. Scientists say the explosion was the worst in history. The volcano was last active in the early 1950's. Santorini is one of the most popular places to visit in Greece, and its popularity is well-deserved. Pictures just don't do it justice; the island is spectacular and its look demonstrates the massive power of volcanoes.
I've been to Santorini twice before and took a tour each time, so this time we decided to do Santorini "on our own". The cruise director warned all of us on the ship that doing Santorini independently would mean that we would have to either take the cable car from the bottom of the cliff to the island above (5 euros each way), ride a donkey (5 euros each way), or walk the 800+ steps (set about 5-10 feet apart) up the long and winding donkey trail and have to dodge both the donkeys and the donkey poo. Obviously, mom and I, along with thousands of others, chose the cable car. We got our tender passes (cruise ships use local boats as tenders) and were off the ship by 9:45.
The wait to ride the cable car was only 1 hour and 5 minutes (I timed it); we had been told it sometimes got up to almost 2 hours. Local authorities claim they can ride 700 people per hour, but we had six cruise ships anchored in the caldera. Lucky for us, it wasn't too hot and we had interesting folks to chat with on both sides of us. Anyone who doesn't like to stand for long periods should definitely take a tour. The ship had four, all of which began with a bus ride from another tender docking point in the caldera. Only one of the tours used the bus port on the return. The others all required people to ride the cable car back down from Fira and take the tender back to the ship. I've done the tours to Oia and the winery and both were excellent. The island is much more than just the dramatic caldera and the white-washed buildings along its rim.
Reaching the top of the caldera and the town of Fira by about 11:15 am, mom and I walked a little before finding a small cafe overlooking the caldera. One of the best views ever. Reminded us of the many other places we've had a drink, snack, or meal with great views, and mom and I reminisced a little while taking in the view. After a leisurely beer, we explored the city some and found the bus station that would take us to Oia, the picturesque artist's colony at the tip of the island. It's quieter than Fira, and the white sugar cube houses and other buildings are built into the cliffs. Along with the blue-domed churches, Oia is a photographer's and artist's mecca. The bus station was packed and looked pretty busy. Not wanting to subject either one of us to standing in a hot bus for the 20+-minute ride to Oia (and back), followed by another hour wait for the cable car back down to the tender, we decided to pass on the ride to Oia. We had both been there before, so I have photos. We decided to just spend more time shopping/exploring in Fira.
The line was only 40 minutes long for the ride back down to the ship. We got back onboard; ate a very late lunch, and read our books and took naps. All that standing in line wore us out! I've learned my lesson and will either do a shore excursion from the ship or wait and go into town later in the day the next time I am in Santorini.
We were invited to a "frequent cruiser" cocktail party with the captain and hotel director (and about 100 other people), so attended it in the Crow's Nest observation lounge before dinner. Sat with a nice couple from Philadelphia who were 2 of the 300 who had been on the previous cruise. They had gotten a very good deal on booking back-to-back cruises with Holland America.
Dinner was a little later--about 8:00 pm in the main dining room. Even with random seating we ended up with two women who are travel writers--one lives in Bend, Oregon, and the other near Vancouver, BC. They own an online magazine called WAVE Journey (Women Adventure Vacations and Experiences) and have been in business since 2005. We enjoyed meeting them and comparing notes on the cruise and ports of call.
After dinner, mom and I dashed off to the show. It was a young Irish woman singer/comedian, Siobhan Phillips. She had a marvelous contralto voice, sounding much like Cher. But, when she spoke, a very strong Irish accent came out (and not nearly as deep a voice). Siobhan was very funny, and her show was a good mix of music and comedy. She had a fun, self-deprecating sense of humor, and her deep singing voice didn't match her looks or speaking voice at all.
Back to the cabin by 11:30 and to bed by midnight. The next day would be a full day at sea, arriving in Catania, Sicily early the next morning.
Our next day on the Nieuw Amsterdam was a welcome, quiet day at sea. Mom and I slept in (until about 8:15) and had a leisurely breakfast. After breakfast, I worked on my photos and journal, and mom read her book outside on the deck. It was kind of cool and windy, but she wrapped up well.
For those who didn't want to sleep, lie in the sun, or read, the ship had many activities to keep its guests occupied. In addition to the usual fitness classes, computer classes, and bridge games, there was a galley tour, beer tasting, spa seminars, mixology class, wine tasting, dance class, and bingo. Plus, the casino and shops were open all day since we were at sea.
After lunch of shrimp cocktail and roast beef (mom) and tuna sashimi salad and grilled salmon (me), we went to a cooking demo in the Holland America/Food & Wine Culinary Center. The guest chef was Michelle Bernstein from Miami. She is the executive chef for four restaurants and her husband runs "the front" of the restaurants. Michelle was very likable and did a running commentary while preparing a seafood ceviche and a cooked bass. Very interesting and some good tips on seafood prep. She is sailing with her parents, husband, and in-laws. She recommended we all try an Aji Amarillo pepper paste you can buy on Amazon.com to put with seafood. She was also very enthusiastic about the different peppers you can get from Peru.
After the culinary demonstration, we returned to the cabin. Mom went upstairs to sit in one of the lounge chairs and read in the Crow's Nest observation lounge, and I walked for about an hour on the promenade deck--three laps to the mile.
Before we knew it, the time had come to get ready for dinner at Tamarind, the exceptional Asian restaurant on the Eurodam and Nieuw Amsterdam. We went for a drink in the Silk Den Asian theme bar before dinner and then sat down for a real treat. We both had difficulty selecting what to eat--many of the choices were appealing. I settled for the pho chicken/coconut milk noodle soup, green papaya salad, wasabi crusted beef tenderloin topped with fried onion rings, and a selection of three sorbets--passion fruit, green tea, and wasabi. The whole meal was outstanding, and I could have easily chosen the sushi or one of the delicious-sounding fish dishes. Mom wasn't too hungry and had the selection of four spring rolls for an appetizer and steamed shrimp and scallops for the main course. Her dessert was yummy, too--mango egg white souffle and mango sorbet. All and all a very good meal, just like I remembered from the Eurodam. The sauces accompanying the meal were very good, too and we got steamed rice (brown or white) and veggies along with it. The service and presentation were perfect and the meal was well worth the $15 per person surcharge.
After dinner, we went to the 10:15 production show entitled, "HAL's Garage Band". The show was quite good, with great sets, costumes, and even some special effects. The 8 people from the other night (6 singers and 2 dancers) were in the show, plus 1 more male dancer and 2 women dancers, for a total of 6 men and 5 women). The music was from the 50's and 60's, so I loved it.
The Nieuw Amsterdam continued its westward way towards Catania, Sicily.
The Nieuw Amsterdam docked early the next morning in Catania, Sicily, and mom and I did our first shore excursion to the lovely little tourist town of Taormina. Everyone loves to visit this small town draped across the side of a mountain, but it is definitely touristy. Our tour group was a whole bus full, so we couldn't hear the guide most of the time since she didn't use the audio/earplug devices. The day was perfect, and we had terrific views of Mt. Etna, which was billowing smoke out of her cone. There was still snow on one side of the volcano, and I got some good photos. I've been to Taormina twice before, but both times the volcano was hidden by clouds.
We walked to the Greek Theater with the guide because I wanted mom to see the views from there, but they had constructed a huge movie screen and added many temporary seats, flooring, and trailers to the lovely spot. Turns out the "Taormina Film Festival" started the next day. Who knew? The screen sure ruined the view, which would normally be a spectacular framing of Mt. Etna by the theater's huge Greek pillars. Oh well. Guess a few hundred/thousand movie-goers isn't going to ruin a theater that has been standing since 300 BC.
Mom and I left the tour early and did some browsing, stopping for a granita (fruit slushy), gelato, and beer along the route back to the bus. Saw a tiny street only about 18 inches wide and many pottery pieces adorned with the symbol of Sicily--a Medusa head surrounded by 3 legs representing the three capes of the triangular-shaped island of Sicily. Not very attractive, but it adorns the red and yellow flag of the province.
The Nieuw Amsterdam had several tours from Catania. One was to the ancient site at Syracuse, two were to Taormina, four were to Mt. Etna, and one was a 4x4 expedition on Mt. Etna. There was also a walking tour of Catania and a fun day at the beach.
Sicily has been rocked by so many earthquakes over the years that it doesn't have quite as many ancient sites as elsewhere in Italy, but the island has been occupied by almost every Mediterranean culture and still has buildings, bridges, and statues from the Arab/Greek/Romans and a few other civilizations. Hearing stories of towns that have been inhabited for over 2000 years really makes one realize just how (relatively) young the USA is.
We met the guide at the Duomo square at 12:00 noon (way too early for most of us) or at the bus at 12:15. We were back in Catania by 1:00 pm, but it took another 45 to make our way to the pier. We drove down the main street of Catania, which was extra busy since most shops in Catania close between 1 pm and 4 pm for lunch and siesta. (According to our guide, the Sicilians picked up that habit when the Spanish were in Sicily).
Mom and I ate lunch at the Lido buffet restaurant. It was Greek food day, so we both enjoyed some of that, along with other tasty things.
We sailed from Catania at about 5 pm, and mom and I met the two WAVEJourney.com women for dinner at the Evening at Le Cirque in the Pinnacle Grill. Holland America (HAL) has one Le Cirque dinner per cruise, and HAL has a 3-year agreement with the founder of Le Cirque in New York to have menus he consulted on/designed served on their ships once per cruise. The dinner was exceptional. It had fixed amuse, appetizer, and soup, and three choices for main course and dessert. The amuse was rhubarb topped with pate, the appetizer was a lobster salad, and the soup was corn chowder. The three main courses were wild halibut, rack of lamb, or a huge steak. The desserts were chocolate souffle, creme brulee, or selection of ice creams/sorbets. Mom and I both had the lamb and it was wonderful. Very tender and juicy, and with a very mild flavor. I scraped my souffle cup to get to all the chocolate souffle, and mom enjoyed the creme brulee.
It was a delightful dinner and I loved comparing travel notes with the other 2 writers. They've spent 7 weeks in Europe--2 weeks on a bus tour, 3 weeks hiking in Spain, and now 2 weeks on this cruise.
The show was an English singer/pianist named Brett Cave. He was very funny and an excellent musician/singer. He sang music by Billy Joel, Neal Sedaka, the Beatles, Elton John, Barry Manilow, Stevie Wonder--all great artists. His English wit was dry and well-appreciated by the audience. Mom and I have really enjoyed every show and glad we have stayed up for them!
The next day we were in Naples--where pizza was invented!
The Nieuw Amsterdam docked in Naples, Italy, having sailed overnight from Catania, Sicily. We arrived a little before 8 am, and since the day was overcast and you could barely see Capri, we decided to stay close in case of rain. We ate a nice breakfast and headed ashore about 9:45. We walked by the hydrofoil/ferry dock, which was just next to our ship, but were glad we decided to skip Capri or Sorrento or Ischia. Although visiting these three fascinating destinations are all easy ferry/hydrofoil rides from Naples, the weather was getting more overcast, so we figured the views wouldn't be that great.
Holland America had many tours from Naples, all of which were excellent and I had done previously on other cruises. Although a tour of Naples is interesting, a day at Pompeii, Herculaneum, Mt. Vesuvius, Sorrento, the Amalfi coast, or Capri should not be missed. Obviously, you can't do all these things with one day in Naples. You will have to read the material and decide which fits your interests better. And, you have to return to this part of the world to see the rest.
We strolled by the old Castel Nuovo, which means "new castle", even though it dates back to 1282. They have a wooden walkway over a large archaeological site. Looked like there was once a settlement just outside the fort and moat. We walked just a couple of blocks to the Galleria Umberto, a gorgeous old gallery built in 1890 filled with shops and cafes. Mom and I looked around and then had a coffee/diet coke while engaging in some people watching. This shopping gallery is spectacular, with its high dome and marvelous mosaics depicting the astrological signs decorating the floor.
Although it was overcast, we still didn't have any rain, so we decided to ride the nearby funicular to the top of the large hill overlooking Naples. It had a castle named Castel St. Elmo that looked like it would provide great views of the city, harbor, and Mt. Vesuvius. The guide (me) took a couple of wrong turns trying to find the funicular, but we finally found the station after walking through some typical narrow alleyways that looked just like a caricature of Naples, with laundry hung everywhere and people leaning out the windows conversing in loud, fast Italian with each other.
Turns out the funicular station was at the rear of a small courtyard right across the street from one of the exits out of the Galleria Umberto. Oh well, we just walked a few blocks extra. The funicular centrale (1.2 euros each one way) took us up the hill, and we got off at the last (4th) exit. The funicular was like a subway--no views. We followed the signs to the Castel St. Elmo, and the entry was 5 euros per person. This old fort had marvelous views of our ship, nearby Mt. Vesuvius, and the surrounding harbor and countryside. It was very hazy, so we could barely see Capri, Sorrento, and Ischia. Everything nearer was quite sharp, and the overcast sky made the temperature wonderful. We ran into some Canadians from our ship, but we only saw a handful of other tourists.
On the way up to the Castel, we passed by another funicular station. We decided it must have been the 3rd station, so we went into it and bought a ticket for the return. We noticed when we got on that this one was going down a different way since the walls of the funicular tunnel looked different. Turned out this funicular connected Vomero on the hilltop with Stazione Montesanto at the bottom. We didn't realize there was a second funicular that came down in a completely different part of town! After I located the second funicular line on the Nieuw Amsterdam-provided Naples map, we quickly decided it was too far to walk back to the ship, so re-boarded the funicular, rode it back to the top, walked back to the Piazza Fuga where we exited the first time and went back down the hill! Oh well -- such is the life of independent touring. We saw lots of Naples!
It was about 1:00 pm when we got back to the area near the Galleria, and we found an outdoor cafe to have pizza (what else, it was invented in Naples) and beer for lunch. Very tasty. It started sprinkling rain while we were dining, but since we were sitting under a large outdoor umbrella, we never got wet. It had stopped raining by the time we finished, so we meandered back to the ship, and I even stopped for my daily gelato. As we approached the terminal, the lightening and thunder started out across the bay, but it never rained. We were back on the Nieuw Amsterdam by 3 pm. We ran into a couple we had enjoyed a drink with the other night on the ship. They said it poured down rain in Sorrento. No wonder we couldn't see it from Castel St. Elmo. What we thought was haze was actually rain.
It was nap time for mom and I worked on my photos and journal. We watched a documentary on TV about Sirio Maccioni, the founder of Le Cirque Restaurant in NYC. He and his family have partnered with Holland America to present Le Cirque on all the ships once per cruise. It was an interesting story of a very young boy who immigrated to the USA soon after WWII. His father was killed in the war, and he went to work as a waiter at a Tuscan hotel before joining an ocean liner as a waiter. When he got to NYC on the ocean liner, he "jumped ship" and has been there ever since, although he still keeps a home in Tuscany.
Mom and I had a 7:30 shore excursion to Rome the next day, so we decided to just eat at the buffet and go to the 8:00 pm show. We were back in the cabin and ready for bed by 9:30--much better than our usual midnight.
The buffet was good and faster than the dining room. Mom had pepper steak with fried rice and I had a salmon tartare appetizer, grilled salmon, and French fries. Mom's steak was huge and I ate half of it.
We went to the 8 pm show. It was a combo of the Celtic duo and the piano player/singer we loved so much the night before--Brett Cave. All in all a good day. The next day was our Roman holiday, just like Audrey's Hepburn's.
The Nieuw Amsterdam was in Rome on a Sunday, which meant that the Vatican Museum and Sistine Chapel were closed. If you are planning a Mediterranean cruise, be sure to check closing dates of museums for the days your ship is in port. Although many museums close on Mondays, the Vatican closes on Sunday. There are thousands of other things to do in Rome, but I know that many first-timers have the Sistine Chapel on their must-see list.
The Nieuw Amsterdam had several tours going into either Rome or Vatican City. Some were mostly walking; others on a bus. The ship also had some tours that did not visit Rome for those who had been many times before. These included a day in Tarquinia and Tuscania, time in Ostia Antica, or a visit to the catacombs outside Rome.
We were up before six am on Sunday morning since we had our early morning "Roman Holiday" tour. This full day tour was visiting many of the settings and spots are seen in the movie "Roman Holiday", which starred Gregory Peck and Eddie Albert and introduced Audrey Hepburn to the world in her first movie. The movie was filmed in Rome, and much of the city is remarkably unchanged in the past 60 years. (Not sure why this is surprising since some of those places are unchanged in the last 600 years.) Most of the 20 participants on the tour were like me--had visited Rome many times and were enamored of the movie. Others had never been to Rome before but thought the tour included most of the places they had dreamed of seeing. Having a small group of 20 sure makes big tours look hectic and crowded. However, smaller tours usually are more expensive, so that is a factor you must consider when planning your time ashore.
We had another lovely day--in the low 80's and partly cloudy. Our bus left the ship at 7:45 and was in Rome by 9:00 am. It was Sunday, so traffic was light. We rode into Rome a slightly different way than I've been before, passing by the "St. Paul Outside the Walls" church and the tomb of a rich Italian that was built about 18 BC–12 BC as a tomb for Caius Cestius that was modeled after the Great Pyramid at Giza. It is well preserved but looks out of place in Rome.
The first stop was at the Palazzo Brancaccio, which is an elegant villa built in the late 19th century (a few blocks east of the Colosseum near the Parco di Traiano). For those who have seen the movie "Roman Holiday", the palazzo was seen in the first few scenes, where Princess Anya (Audrey) is welcomed to Rome with a party hosted by the Italian ambassador from her country (wherever that was, they never say). (Note: the palace is not on the river, so she must have been either sleeping somewhere else or the director took some artistic license, since the movie switches from the ballroom dancing to her bedroom, and her bedroom is where she watches the people dancing on the river barge below.) We watched some of the movie "Roman Holiday" on the return to the ship, and the decor of the rooms has not been changed since the 1950's when the movie was made. We had about two blocks' walk to/from the bus.
Our bus left the Palazzo Brancaccio and drove the short distance to near the Spanish Steps, where Audrey had her first gelato from a street vendor. (Note: No gelato street vendors near the Spanish Steps today, but there is a McDonald's.) We strolled from the Spanish Steps to the Trevi Fountain, where we threw our coins into this tourist trap, hoping to see Rome again. (Our guide said use left hand over right shoulder, but some people at the fountain from other tours said their guide said just the opposite. Doubt if it makes a difference!) Leaving the Trevi Fountain, we next walked to one of my favorite spots in Rome--the Pantheon. While at the Pantheon, we were given tickets to have a free gelato since we didn't get one at the steps. The gelato shop was very large, and about a block north of the Pantheon. After finishing the gelato, we walked by the Piazza Navona (another great spot) on our way to the bus, which picked us up near the Umberto bridge over the Tiber River.
By now it was about 1 pm, and the next stop was for a very leisurely lunch. We rode south of the city towards the catacombs area and dined at a lovely restaurant called Ristorante Cecilia Metella. The restaurant was large, but I think we were the only group. Most of the other lunch diners looked/sounded like locals. We ate outside, which both mom and I love. The restaurant has been there for decades and was supposedly a favorite of Audrey and Gregory while they were in Rome making the movie. We were told they liked to escape away from the crowds to the country. The meal was one of the best I've had on a shore excursion. We started with prosciutto and melon and then had a delicious (and very creamy) bowl of pasta with veggies. The main course was pan fried veal, potatoes, and a green salad. We also had plenty of white and red wine and good bread (and olive oil/balsamic vinegar for dipping). Dessert was a cake topped with a lemon-flavored meringue. Very good. After lunch, we all got a chance to have our photo taken on one of the old Vespas (scooters) used in the movie. The Vespa was definitely old but in pristine condition. Our guide said it was one of many used in "Roman Holiday", and I guess I'll take her word on it.
Our last stop was at the Mouth of Truth, which none of us had visited, despite the fact that it is in the gallery outside the Santa Maria in Cosmedin church located on the Tiber River almost due west of the Colosseum next to the Circus Maximus. Other tourists had found the Mouth, and there was a line of about 15 minutes to stick your hand in the mouth. If you don't tell the truth, your hand is bitten off by some monster hidden inside the wall or something like that. This was one of the sweetest scenes in the movie, and we all had a good time. It costs 0.5 euros, and we hope the money is going to the church. Each person is only allowed one photo of themselves (either alone or with someone), and they were very strictly enforcing the rule.
On the way back to the ship, we saw about the first half of the movie. Not sure why they didn't show half of it on the way into Rome. The funny part was the guide could only get the movie in Spanish with English subtitles. Oh well, it was still fun. We returned to the ship about 6:30--very tired, but glad we had picked this tour.
Mom and I ate in the main dining room and neither of us was very hungry. I had a shrimp skewer appetizer, green salad, and grilled rare tuna. Mom had the shrimp and a veggie pasta. We sat with a couple from Toronto who winter in Florida who have been on the ship since May (a total of 24 days) and two guys from Brighton in the UK. No show since the Nieuw Amsterdam had a movie in the theater, so we were in bed by 10 pm. The ship sailed for Livorno in the evening.
Our last day in port was in Livorno, the Italian seaport closest to Florence, Pisa, the towns of Tuscany, and the Cinque Terre. The Nieuw Amsterdam arrived early in the morning, and mom and I had a 5.5-hour tour to Lucca and Pisa. We had both been to Florence several times, and we were at Cinque Terre a few months before. Since we had never been to the walled Tuscan town of Lucca and hadn't been to Pisa since 1985, it seemed like a logical choice. (There's not much to do/see in Livorno, although the port runs a shuttle bus into the main square for 5 euros round trip.) Our Nieuw Amsterdam Mediterranean cruise included tours to Florence, the Cinque Terre, Pisa, Lucca, Siena, San Gimignano, and the Tuscan countryside.
The big bus (about 50) left at 8 am, and we immediately noticed something different with our escort--he was Australian, not Italian! The young man had married an Italian girl from Livorno three years ago and moved to Italy not speaking a word of Italian. He took intensive Italian classes and now works as a tour escort. (We had Italian guides in both towns. Our escort said you need much more schooling to get a guide license, and he hasn't decided whether to pursue that career.) Anyway, it was great fun to have someone who lives in Italy but has lived elsewhere provide a great comparison of things that natives wouldn't think about discussing, like all the Italian "hand-language" and the wild driving and parking. He was very entertaining, and although he loves Italy (and his wife), he had no problems discussing cultural differences we had all observed, but hated to ask a native. Fun bus ride.
We were in Lucca by 9 am and had a walking tour of the city until 10:30 with the Audiovox (radios and ear pieces). According to our local guide, Lucca is the only Italian city that still is completely encircled by its walls. It was also the only Tuscan town not conquered and consolidated into the Florence state by the Medici family. Since it was Monday morning, most of the shops were closed. We walked around the city, taking in the churches, squares, and narrow streets. Mom and I didn't think it was nearly as attractive as other small Italian towns we have visited like Volterra, the Cinque Terre towns, Porto Venere, San Gimignano, and Taormina. We missed the flower boxes and outdoor cafes. Since I've heard people rave about how much they loved this city of Puccini's birth, maybe it was just because everything was closed and the town was fairly quiet, or we are just "toured out". (The cafes may spill out into the squares and streets later on Monday.) Like most guided tours, we had no free time to explore on our own, and I hated to leave the tour since we had not been there before. Lucca does have an interesting square (which is really an oval) that was built using the foundation and walls of an old Roman amphitheater.
Our next stop was Pisa and its famous (or infamous) bell tower.
We left Lucca about 10:30 and arrived in Pisa just 30 minutes later. We walked about five blocks from the bus parking lot to the main square, which has four gorgeous buildings set on a huge grassy mall, one of which is Pisa's famous bell tower, which leans 5 degrees. The freestanding tower is the bell tower of the cathedral next door, and used to lean 5.5 degrees, but was slightly righted and shored up to prevent further leaning and eventual destruction by an international group of engineers about a decade ago. This square is called the Field of Miracles and is the most popular attraction in Pisa.
The bell tower and all the other buildings in the Field of Miracles had been cleaned a few years ago, and the marble really sparkled. I had never thought about it, but the cylindrical shape of Pisa's tower is unlike most other Italian bell towers, which are usually square like the Washington Monument. Since Pisa's Field of Miracles was built on marshy land, the other buildings have some "lean" in them also, but since they are not as narrow or tall, it is not as dramatic. We had to leave Pisa at 12:30, so mom and I split from the tour after a while so we could browse the many shops a little, have a gelato, and rest a little.
Back at the Nieuw Amsterdam by 1:30, we ate a late lunch and then took it easy in the afternoon. Mom and I had enjoyed the Tamarind Asian Restaurant so much that we had made reservations for another dinner there. I had the pork ribs and tempura shrimp appetizers, followed by the wasabi crusted fillet. Mom had the green papaya salad and the fillet. We split a dessert of a kind of mango flan/pannacotta accompanied by a mango sorbet. Very good (again).
The show was called "NYC" and featured the 11 production singers and dancers and the orchestra. Very good. It debuted on the Nieuw Amsterdam inaugural last summer and is appropriate since New York was originally called Nieuw (New) Amsterdam by the Dutch.
We were in bed by midnight after another very long day. No alarm the next morning--we would be sailing for Barcelona, our disembarkation port.
Mom and I had a nice relaxing last day on the ship. We relaxed with our books/newspaper in the observation lounge in the morning before going to the disembarkation briefing. (They were serving free mimosas/champagne, so listening for 20 minutes wasn't a problem.) After lunch, we went to another cooking demonstration by Michelle Bernstein. She did a vegetable risotto and a berry pannacotta dessert. We got to taste the pannacotta, and it was delicious.
After the culinary demo, I worked on my photos and this journal, and we packed. Never takes long to pack on the way home! We joined the two women from WAVE Journey for dinner at 7 pm in the main restaurant and went to the last production show, "It Takes Two", which featured six of the singers performing as duos.
Since the Nieuw Amsterdam did not arrive in Barcelona until 5 pm, we had most of the day on the ship. After we arrived, many passengers went into Barcelona for dinner or planned to spend a few days there after disembarking the Nieuw Amsterdam the next morning. Barcelona is a fun city, with amazing architecture and sights, so it certainly is worth an extra few days before or after your cruise.
Disembarkation was a breeze the next morning, and Delta Airlines even had a baggage check-in line set up at the cruise terminal for our 10 am non-stop flight to Atlanta. We disembarked the Nieuw Amsterdam, claimed our bags, rolled them a short distance to the airline check-in, boarded the bus, and were at the airport 30 minutes later.
Our Mediterranean cruise on the Nieuw Amsterdam was great fun, and we had wonderful June weather. The ports of call were some of the best in the world, with each having its own special charm and memories.
Holland America is often thought of as a cruise line geared towards older travelers. The passengers on this cruise seemed younger than what some might think (or maybe it's because I keep getting older). Mom didn't think there were a lot of folks her age, and we met many couples in their late 40's and early 50's (along with others much older). The casino was packed every night, as was the piano bar and shows. I think this cruise ship and Mediterranean itinerary would be an excellent choice for all ages, given the diverse activities ashore and onboard.
As is common in the travel industry, the writer was provided with complimentary cruise accommodation for the purpose of review. While it has not influenced this review, About.com believes in full disclosure of all potential conflicts of interest. For more information, see our Ethics Policy.
  A Morning in Venice  
  A Day in Dubrovnik  
  A Day in Old Town Corfu  
  A Day in Argostoli, Cephalonia (also Spelled Kefalonia and Kephalonia)  
  A Day in Santorini, Greece - One of the Most Spectacular Places in the World  
  A Day at Sea on the Nieuw Amsterdam  
  A Day on Sicily at the Foot of Mt. Etna  
  A Day in Naples  
  Roman Holiday - In the Footsteps (or Vespa track) of Peck and Hepburn  
  Ancient Lucca from Livorno  
  Pisa and its Famous Bell Tower  
  Day on the Mediterranean Sea and Disembarkation in Barcelona  
With its 17th century Renaissance architecture and stunning network of canals, the city of Amsterdam has Old World appeal mixed with parks, museums, restaurants, and other activities that make it a thoroughly modern city. Yes, the city's Red Light District and coffeeshop culture both are magnets for boisterous crowds, but from street markets and stroopwafels to bicycle tours, breweries, and canal tours, there are plenty of tamer activities to enjoy in this capital of the Netherlands.
Read on for when to visit, things to do, where to eat and drink, where to stay, getting there, and tips for saving money on your next visit to Amsterdam.
From museums and historical sites like the Rijksmuseum, the Van Gogh Museum, and the Anne Frank House to parks, street markets, canal and bicycle tours, and the rich culinary history of its multicultural residents, Amsterdam has a variety of activities to occupy visitors.
While the city has dozens of attractions, here are the can't miss ones:
Explore more of the city's best with our articles on Amsterdam's top attractions, how to spend 48 hours in Amsterdam, and 50 More Things to Do in Amsterdam.
From traditional local dishes like stroopwafels, raw herring, and pancakes to international imports like Indonesian Rijsttafel ("rice table," or a meal with several small plates), Indian, and more, Amsterdam's food scene is varied and offers something for every taste.
To sample the best of the city, visit De Foodhallen, which has over 20 food stalls offering everything from Dutch bitterballen (deep-fried beef smothered in breadcrumbs) and hot dogs with sauerkraut to Spanish pintxos, Vietnamese banh mi, and Indian street food. Don't miss the spot's gin and tonic bar, or sip on the unofficial city drink at Razmataz, which offers 50 different variations on the classic. To learn about gin's predecessor and the native spirit of the Netherlands, genever, visit the House of Bols distillery and museum.
Visit one of the 250-plus food stalls at Albert Cuyp Market in the De Pijp neighborhood, for stroopwafel, fresh herring, produce, flowers, and other goods, then stop into nearby Glou Glou for natural wines and snacks like cheese, bread, and more. For rijsttafel, try Blauw Indonesian south of Vondelpark or Sampurna on the Singel canal in Jordaan. Beer lovers will want to tour the Heineken Experience or visit Brouwerij 't IJ, an organic brewery located next to a working windmill.
For more on the city's food, read about its authentic Mexican restaurants, where to find Asian restaurants, and where to spend 24 delicious hours in Amsterdam.
Amsterdam has a variety of accommodations, from five-star hotels to budget-friendly hostels. The most convenient and expensive options are in the inner canal belt, which is bordered by Amsterdam Centraal to the north and the Museum District to the south. Options range from luxury boutique hotels like the Kimpton DeWitt, Canal House, and the Pulitzer Amsterdam to standard chains like the Hyatt Regency, the Marriott, and the Hilton. For more affordable hotels, Oud Zuid (Amsterdam South) as well as De Wallen (Red Light District) in the east offer hostels, Air BNBs, and reliable brands like Hilton and Marriott.
Read more on the best hotels in Amsterdam here.
Over 108 airlines fly to and from over 300 destinations worldwide to Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport, which is Europe's third busiest by passenger volume, a KILM hub, and located about 11 miles (19 kilometers) southwest of the city. Amsterdam Centraal train station is about a 15-20 minute ride from the airport. A one-way fare is 5.50 euros, which includes a 1 euro surcharge for a disposable ticket. Fares for the seven-minute ride to Amsterdam Zuid (south part of the city) are 3.80 euros, and from there, you can connect via the city's metro system to other parts of town.
Taxis are also readily available at the airport, with fares into the city center averaging between 45-50 euros, as are rideshares like Uber.
Amsterdam is also a short train ride from other points in Europe, like Paris (3:18 via Thalys), London (3:55 via Eurostar), and Cologne (2:38 via ICE international railways).
For more additional money-saving tips, read our guide for visiting Amsterdam on a budget.
  Planning Your Trip to Amsterdam  
  Things to Do  
  What to Eat and Drink  
  Where to Stay  
  Getting There  
  Culture & Customs  
  Money-Saving Tips  
Best time to visit: The most popular tourist season in Amsterdam is from April through September, when the temperatures are mild, flowers are in full bloom, and days are long, making it easier to take advantage of the city's daytime activities and vibrant nightlife on foot or by bike. But don't discount other times of the year. During the holidays, elaborate light displays on homes, businesses, and the city's canals make it a winter wonderland, while in late fall and early spring, streets and main attractions are less crowded and hotels and airfare are less expensive. For more about the weather in Amsterdam, read our seasonal guide to the city.
Getting Around: The historic parts of Amsterdam are compact and easily walkable. The city also has an extensive public transportation network consisting of trams, ferries, buses, and metros, which all use the same public transport chip card (OV-chipkaart). Bicycles, residents' transit of choice, are also available for rent at several outfitters throughout the city.
Travel Tips: Because of its location on the North Sea, Amsterdam is notorious for its frequent rain showers and temperature shifts, so come prepared with closed-toed, water-resistant shoes and a waterproof jacket, hat, or umbrella (or all of the above!). Note that currently, citizens of the European Union, United States, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand do not need a visa if visiting for three months or less as long as they have a valid passport.
Take an evening canal cruise. Declared a UNESCO heritage site in 2010, the city's network of 165 canals provide a unique vantage point for viewing Amsterdam's most notable architecture, from the historic homes that ring the most central canals to the modern buildings along the Amstel River. From November through January, the city presents the annual Amsterdam Light Festival, with dozens of art installations from renowned Dutch and international artists in and along the water.
Tour the Anne Frank House. See the secret annex where Anne Frank, her family, and four others hid during World World II as well as entries from her famous diary and other moving remnants of the impact of her short life and the horrors of Nazi occupation in this museum on Prinsengracht. Note that entry is ticketed and must be secured a few months in advance, so plan ahead.
View the work of the Dutch masters at the Rijksmuseum. With works from Vermeer to Van Gogh to Rembrandt, this museum houses the largest collection of Dutch and Flemish art in the country. Follow your visit with a picnic on the Museumplein or stops at the adjacent Van Gogh Museum, Stedelijk Museum of contemporary art, or the Concertgebouw, the city's performing arts hall.
Bicycles are a huge part of Amsterdam's culture and often outnumber cars. Avoid standing or walking in designated bike lanes.
Restaurant service is different than in the United States. As is common in Europe, service is slower, and you will often have to flag down wait staff to place an order or ask for a check.
There is a difference between a coffee shop and a coffee shop or café. A coffeeshop (no space) is a place that sells marijuana and related products, while a coffee shop or café is where one sips coffee.
Photos are forbidden in the Red Light District to protect the identities of the workers.
Pack a picnic for a park. From the 120-acre Vondelpark in Amsterdam-Zuid to Oosterpark, the city's first planned park, Amsterdam offers ample green spaces perfect for a picnic. Shop at nearby markets and food stalls to save money on expensive sit-down meals.
Take advantage of the Last Minute Ticket Shop, which offers same-day, deep discounts to local theatre productions, comedy shows, and concerts starting at 10 a.m.
Purchase an unlimited one, two, three, or seven-day tram pass, starting at 2.50 euros for children and 7.50 euros for adults for a single day of rides.
Book a hotel or hostel outside of the city center. De Pijp, Plantagebuurt, and Haarlem are all neighborhoods that offer high quality, but less expensive accommodations and easy access to public transportation.
One of the world's great capitals of gay culture, Amsterdam holds one of the most popular Gay Pride celebrations in Europe, drawing revelers from all over to partake of a week's worth of parties and arts and cultural events, culminating with the famously colorful Amsterdam Canal Parade. Amsterdam Gay Pride takes place each year in late July and early August - the dates this year are July 23 to August 7, 2016, with the famed Amsterdam Pride Boat Parade set for Saturday, August 6.
It's a particularly special celebration this year, however, EuroPride 2016 coincides with Amsterdam Pride over these two weeks. Festivities include an engaging mix of sporting events, cultural programs, lectures, political discussions, religious observations, debates, conferences, concerts, and much more. Check the events calendar for more details.
Fans of big, international Pride celebrations may as well go ahead and mark their calendars, because next year, the latest edition of World Pride will be coming to Madrid from June 23 through July 2, 2017.
Planning to visit Amsterdam by train? Here's the inside scoop on buying a Eurail Pass.
Although the most prominent days of Amsterdam Pride are the final weekend, a variety of street festivals, circuit-style nightclub parties, arts and cultural presentations, and sporting events are staged throughout the weeks leading up to the big weekend, and this will be especially true with EuroPride taking place at the same time. Here's a full, detailed calendar of Amsterdam Gay Pride and EuroPride events, including the opening Roze Zaterdag (Pink Saturday) observation on July 23 in Vondelpark and Dam Square, along with the Amsterdam Pride Walk, which commences at Dam Square's inspiring Homomonument.
During the big weekend, from Friday through Sunday, August 5 through August 7, Amsterdam Pride's biggest and top-attended events take place. These include a series of Street Parties along the city's key streets for gay partying (Reguliersdwarsstraat, Amstel, Westermarkt, Paardenstraat, New West, Zeedijk Seawall, and so on).
Saturday afternoon (from 2 until 6 pm), August 6, is the date of the most famous event of week, the spectacularly colorful and festive Amsterdam Gay Pride Canal Parade, during which some 80 fancifully decorated boats sail along the elegant Prinsengracht Canal, leaving from near Centraal rail station, and then up the Amstel River to Oosterdok. It's one of the world's most colorful gay pride parades. That evening, the fun continues with more street festivals and parties lasting into the wee hours of the morning.
The celebration comes to a close on Sunday, but there's still plenty to see and do that day, including a Pride Closing Party and several other fetes.
Amsterdam Gay Resources
As you might expect, the city's many gay-popular bars, restaurants, hotels, and shops in the area have more going on than usual throughout the Amsterdam Pride period. Check online resources about the Amsterdam gay scene, such as the comprehensive the NightTours Gay Guide to Amsterdam, the handy Amsterdam4Gays.com site, and the Patroc.com Amsterdam Gay Guide. Also take a look at the excellent gay travel site produced by the city's official tourism organization, the Amsterdam Tourist Board.
Also well worth reading is About.com's Amsterdam Travel site, which is packed with tips on what to see and do, where to stay, and other aspects of visiting this charming European cultural capital.
Amsterdam is one of the world's most beautiful and progressive cities. From day into night, couples can visit world-class museums, stroll along picture-perfect canals, and dabble in adult pleasures that include visiting coffee houses and the famous ​Red Light District.
Embark on this virtual tour of Amsterdam's top attractions for adults to see for yourself what the city holds in store -- and leave the kids behind.
The best way to see Amsterdam is with an I amsterdam Card. The card provides free admission to many museums and access to public transportation.
Valuable to Amsterdam visitors who want to see and do a lot in a small amount of time, the I amsterdam Card is a smart card encoded with a chip that serves multiple purposes and saves users money.
The I amsterdam Card comes with a ticket for free public transportation and provides more than 30 free and 20 discounted offers on major tourist attractions and restaurants. A city guide with an informative booklet is included.
Visitors can purchase an I amsterdam Card that is good to use for 24, 48, or 72 hours.
One of the many attractions the card provides free admission to is the Rijksmuseum. It is the city's leading art and history museum and is known for its collection of masterpieces by the Dutch painter Rembrandt. Close by is the Van Gogh Museum, a more modern facility that contains many of the artist's iconic paintings, including self-portraits, still lifes, and landscapes. (Just don't search for his "Starry Night" masterpiece -- that's in New York City's Museum of Modern Art.)
Traveling around Amsterdam by bike is a convenient, energy-efficient way to tour the city, and a good way to see the city as the locals do. Renting a tandem bike can be a romantic way to experience Amsterdam together and get a bit of fresh air and exercise.
As artful as a painting and full of classic European beauty, an Amsterdam canal inspires romance within couples who gaze upon it.
Florists proffer seeds, bulbs, and flowers of all kinds in this market alongside the canal. Gorgeous blooms such as tulips are found in abundance here.
It is legal for adults to purchase small quantities of marijuana and hashish at "coffee shops" like The Bulldog chain in the city. When you enter a coffee shop, you will either see a posted menu and can ask to see one. It will list the variety of strains available and the prices. In addition to marijuana and hashish, coffee shops sell rolling papers, pipes, and even coffee.
Available in farm markets and shops, Dutch cheese comes in many varieties perfect to pack in a picnic basket. Amsterdam gourmets prize Dutch cheese as much as they revere its beer, herring, licorice candy, and fine chocolate.
Stocked wall to wall with condoms of all shapes, colors, flavors, and sizes, the Condomerie is a must-see attraction on any adult tour of Amsterdam.
Amsterdam's famous Red Light district houses numerous sex shops interspersed between windows where scantily clad prostitutes put themselves on display.
It's not the most appetizing name for a restaurant, but since the structure has been around since 1627 the proprietors must be doing something right.
A medieval landmark, restaurant d'Vijff Vlieghen is a warren of nine small rooms in five interconnected buildings serving "new Dutch Cuisine." The fare includes organically grown vegetables along with meat and seafood offerings. The restaurant is named ​after its original owner, a hyperactive fellow his colleagues nicknamed "The Fly," as he buzzed with activity (or so they say).
At night -- especially during summer, when the sun doesn't set until after 10 p.m. on many an evening -- it's romantic to sail along Amsterdam's waterways. Canal boats ply the waters day and night, and visitors on a honeymoon or romantic getaway may enjoy taking a dinner cruise.
All is not sex and drugs in Amsterdam -- love and romance flourish, too. The city's most beautiful Marriage Chamber is inside Sofitel the Grand Amsterdam Hotel. The hotel, formerly Amsterdam City Hall, contains well preserved Jugendstil murals and stained glass created by the artist Chris Lebeau in the 1920s.
Gaming is legal in the Netherlands. So if you're lucky in love, perhaps you'll also be a sure thing at the casino. Holland Casino is a two-story structure, with slot machines on the ground level and table games on the second floor. Gaming is conducted in Dutch and the currency is in Euros. Couples who possess the I amsterdam Card can enter at no charge.
  See the Sights of Amsterdam  
  Getting Out and About  
  Bike Around Amsterdam  
  Scenic Amsterdam Canal  
  Amsterdam Flower Market  
  Amsterdam Coffee Shop  
  Sample Delicious Dutch Cheese  
  Condomerie  
  Amsterdam Sex Shop  
  Five Flies Restaurant  
  Amsterdam Sunset Canal Cruise  
  Marriage Chamber  
  Amsterdam Holland Casino  
The 2100-passenger Nieuw Amsterdam is one of Holland America's "Dam" cruise ships. Similar in size and configuration to her sister ship, the Eurodam, this deluxe, mid-sized ship certainly appeals to those who appreciate a spacious ship with subdued interiors and friendly service from the staff.I sailed on a 12-day Mediterranean cruise on the Nieuw Amsterdam and loved the itinerary, dining venues, entertainment, and overall appearance of the ship. The Nieuw Amsterdam is sailing in Alaska in the summer of 2016 before transiting the Panama Canal and then sailing the Caribbean during the winter of 2016-2017 from Fort Lauderdale.Let's tour the Nieuw Amsterdam.
The Nieuw Amsterdam has numerous categories of cabins and suites divided into six main categories --
All of the cabin and suite categories have many amenities, and the size varies based upon category and ship location.
The Nieuw Amsterdam has several diverse dining options onboard, and those who expect a variety of cuisines and atmospheres will love dining on this ship.The seven different restaurant choices include cuisines like Asian, Indian, Mexican, American, Greek, and Italian. You can almost eat your way around the world in a week's cruise.The dining options on the Nieuw Amsterdam include:
The Nieuw Amsterdam also has Slice Pizza, a casual pizza take-away restaurant and complimentary 24-hour room service.
Most cruise ships have a mixture of quiet, fun, and fanciful bars and lounges, and the Nieuw Amsterdam is no different. Many of the bars are quiet, and some like the Silk Den, are elegant and have unique decor. Other bars like the Piano Bar and Northern Lights, are filled with fun and music.The dozen bars and lounges on the Nieuw Amsterdam are:
The above sections looked at many of the interior common areas on the Nieuw Amsterdam. The rest of the ship is just as lovely. Small touches like the elegant elevator doors and lobbies add to the overall quiet ambiance.
Holland America has located a nice specialty coffee bar inside the library and computer center on the top deck forward. This is a busy place, filled with those checking email, drinking coffee, and reading the newspaper or working the daily puzzles. Guests who want to improve their computer skills will appreciate the large hands-on classroom.
Spending time in the outdoor sunshine is one of the primary reasons many travelers love to cruise. The Nieuw Amsterdam has two pools, several whirlpools, and hundreds of deck chairs to encourage its passengers to enjoy the outdoor decks.
Although the mid-sized ship does not have a rock climbing wall, ropes course, or miniature golf course, the Nieuw Amsterdam does have a sports court, and one of the pools is for adults-only.
The Nieuw Amsterdam confirms Holland America Line's position as a deluxe cruise line. Its small touches like fresh flowers and interesting artwork add a lot to the overall cruise experience, and the staff were friendly, efficient, and accommodating. Although our ship was full, it was easy to find a quiet place to read or just watch the world go by.Although our Mediterranean cruise included mostly seniors and middle-aged couples, the onboard activities are varied enough for multi-generational groups and younger couples to also have a great cruise experience. I was sailing with my mom, and we ate dinner one night with a young couple in their 20's who were loving the Nieuw Amsterdam cruise experience as much as we were. They particularly appreciated the attentive service and elegant common areas on the ship, and weren't looking for the constant entertainment found on larger ships.All the food we had onboard was very good, and I especially enjoyed the three exceptional specialty dining options--Tamarind, the Pinnacle Grill, and an Evening at Le Cirque.Overall, the Nieuw Amsterdam is a great ship for cruise travelers of all ages. 
As is common in the travel industry, the writer was provided with complimentary cruise accommodation for the purpose of review. While it has not influenced this review, Tripsavvy believes in full disclosure of all potential conflicts of interest. 
 Nieuw Amsterdam - Cabins and Suites 
 Nieuw Amsterdam - Dining and Cuisine 
 Nieuw Amsterdam - Bars and Lounges 
  Nieuw Amsterdam - Other Interior Common Areas  
 Nieuw Amsterdam - Exterior Deck Areas 
  Nieuw Amsterdam - Conclusion  
inside cabin
oceanview cabin
deluxe verandah oceanview cabin
superior verandah suite
deluxe verandah suite
penthouse verandah suites
Manhattan Dining Room
Tamarind
Canaletto
Lido Restaurant
Terrace Grill
An Evening at Le Cirque
Culinary Arts Center
Casino Bar
Crow's Nest
Explorer's Cafe and Coffee Bar
Explorer's Lounge
Lido Bar
Northern Lights
Ocean Bar
Piano Bar
Queen's Lounge
Sea View Bar
Silk Den
There's a whole lot more to Amsterdam than sex and drugs. 
The Dutch capital is a labyrinth of canals lined with architectural gems and studded with more than 75 museums covering everything from art and history to sex, drugs, even the Bible. 
Amsterdam was once home to Rembrandt and Van Gogh. It’s a maritime hub famous for its liberal attitudes, coffee shops, canals, and red-light district. 
Whether you’re looking to see original works of famous art, learn about what makes Amsterdam the city it is or explore Amsterdam’s liberal perspectives on sex and cannabis, there’s a museum for you.
These are Amsterdam’s 10 best museums.
To get to know Amsterdam, head to the Amsterdam Museum. It’s more engaging than any book, website, or tour guide and tells the stories of Rembrandt, Van Gogh, Anne Frank, and Dutch history through a series of interactive exhibits. This is the best museum for learning the history of this 1,000-year-old trading city. The museum opened in 1926 and moved to a 16th-century orphanage in the city center in the 1970s. Its collection includes items from the orphanage.
The Anne Frank House is one of Amsterdam’s most visited museums. It includes the apartment where the Frank family hid from the Nazis and where Anne Frank wrote her famous diary. The exhibits are simple but offer an authentic glimpse into how the Frank family lived until being arrested by German police in 1944. Visitors can walk into the small, secret room where the family hid behind a bookcase before their arrest. Timed tickets are required and must be purchased online. You can buy tickets up to two months before your planned visit.
The Rijksmuseum is the largest art museum in the Netherlands and one of the country’s most famous museums and is fresh off a 10-year renovation, completed in 2013. The museum anchors an area called Museum Square, also home to the Van Gogh museum. The museum chronicles Dutch history, walking visitors through the Eighty Years’ War, Dutch colonialism, and World War II resistance and liberation through a collection of a million objects, about 8,000 of which are on display at any given time. The museum also has an extensive library of 2,000 paintings from the Dutch Golden Age, including pieces by Rembrandt and several of his students.
The Van Gogh Museum opened in the 1970s and holds the most extensive collection of Vincent van Gogh paintings in the world. The Van Gogh Museum’s collection includes more than 200 paintings, 500 drawings and 750 letters created by the artist and is one of many Dutch museums dedicated to Van Gogh. Among its collection are several self-portraits and many van Gogh’s best-known pieces, including “Sunflowers” (1889), “Irises” (1890), and “Almond Blossom” (1890). The museum was the Netherlands most visited in 2017, drawing in 2.3 million visitors.
Amsterdam was the original pot capital of the world and a natural location for a Hash Marihuana & Hemp Museum. The museum opened in 1985 and chronicles both the story of cannabis in Amsterdam as well as the experience of cannabis consumption. The museum houses about 6,000 cannabis-related items, including a collection of reefer-madness memorabilia, Dutch paintings of Amsterdam’s original smokehouses, and quite a few pipes. It also has an interactive vaping exhibit, 
Amsterdam’s homage to sex bills itself as the world’s oldest sex museum. The museum opened its doors in 1985 and explores the evolution of human sexuality over time. Exhibits cover the history of sex, Cleopatra’s sexual habits, and sexual repression during the Middle Ages. The museum’s collection includes a plaster Venus and a full-size wax Mata Hari in addition to erotic pictures, paintings, and sound recordings. This museum is small, but it is one of Amsterdam’s more famous museums and draws hundreds of thousands of visitors each year.
Courtesy of Bijbelsmuseum
The Netherlands played a crucial role in translating, printing and distributing Bibles, so it's only fitting Amsterdam would be home to a museum dedicated to it. The Biblical Museum museum tells the Bible’s story and explores the intersection of Christianity, art, and culture. The museum is home to several centuries-old Bibles, including the first Bible printed in the Netherlands in 1477. It also is home to a collection of Egyptian artifacts.
This small museum is an accessory lover’s paradise. It started with a single bag that grew into a small exhibit in a Dutch family’s home. The museum has since moved into a 17th-century canal house in the city center, and its collection has grown to include more than 5,000 items. The Museum of Bags and Purses is one of only a handful of specialty museums focused on handbags and houses the world’s most extensive collection of purses and bags. The museum also is known for its afternoon tea service.
Amsterdam is a maritime city, and there’s no better way to get to know it’s maritime roots than with a visit to the Maritime Museum. The museum is housed in a building from 1656 and traces more than 500 years of Dutch naval history through more than 400,000 objects and pieces of art. The museum sits on an artificial island in Amsterdam Harbor in an area where Dutch warships once prepared for battle.
You don’t have to go to Russia to see the wonders contained in St. Petersburg’s world-famous Hermitage Museum. The Hermitage’s Amsterdam outpost regularly displays collections from its parent museum. It houses two permanent exhibitions, one chronicling the relationship between the Netherlands and Russia and another chronicling the history of the building, which houses the museum. The Hermitage opened its doors in Amsterdam in 2009.
  The Amsterdam Museum  
 Anne Frank House 
  Rijksmuseum  
 Van Gogh Museum 
  Hash Marihuana & Hemp Museum  
  Sexmuseum Amsterdam  
  The Biblical Museum  
  The Museum of Bags and Purses  
  National Maritime Museum  
  Hermitage Museum  
Amsterdam is a great destination for backpackers! And this list of top hostels in the city is perfect for getting your trip planning started. Whether you're looking to stay on a houseboat-turned-hostel, in a party palace, a planetary-themed hostel, or a place where you can freely smoke inside, this list has something for you. 
Flying Pig Backpacker's Downtown hostel is probably the most famous hostel in Amsterdam, so if you're looking for a stereotypical backpacker experience in the city, this is the place to stay! Flying Pig hostels are known for being clean, safe, and fun for everyone, so it'll be hard to go wrong with a dorm bed here. 
Helpful information: 
Address: Nieuwendijk 100, 1012 Amsterdam.
Example prices of their rooms: 
Flying Pig Downtown's Facebook Page.Flying Pig Downtown's location on Google Maps.
If you like your hostels to be clean and beautiful, Cocomama's is the place to you. This is one of the nicest hostels in the entire city! Set in a former brothel, this luxury hostel is in a central location and packed full of amenities. Some of my favourite are the laundry facilities (so rare in a hostel!) and the cosy movie corner for watching films with new friends.
Helpful information: 
Address: Westeinde 18, 1017 ZP Amsterdam.
Example prices of their rooms: 
Cocomama Hostel's Facebook Page.Cocomama Hostel's location on Google Maps.
To immerse yourself in Amsterdam's smoking history, consider staying at the famous Bulldog, which was the very first coffeeshop to have ever opened in the city. Now, you can stay in the Bulldog hotel, which is an especially great option if you'd like to stay within the Red Light District. Dorms are available, as well as plenty of private room options.
Helpful information: 
Address: Oudezijds Voorburgwal 220, 1012 Amsterdam.
Example prices of their rooms: 
The Bulldog's Facebook Page.The Bulldog's location on Google Maps.
If you're looking for a more relaxed vibe at the infamous Flying Pig hostel chain, look into the Flying Pig Uptown, which is close to many of the big museums, like the Van Gogh Museum, is within walking distance to Vondelpark, and is right next to some of the city's coolest markets. 
Helpful information: 
Address: Vossiusstraat 46, 1071 Amsterdam.
Example prices of their rooms: 
The Flying Pig Uptown's Facebook Page.The Flying Pig Uptown's location on Google Maps.
Amsterdam Cribs is a smoker's paradise! In Amsterdam, the vast majority of hostels and hotels are non-smoking, but at Amsterdam Cribs, you'll be able to freely light up in the comfort of your own room. 
Helpful information: 
Address: Oude Hoogstraat 7, Amsterdam.
Example prices of their rooms: 
Amsterdam Crib's Facebook Page.Amsterdam Crib's location on Google Maps.
Bob's Youth Hostel is a funky spot in Amsterdam that's all about the artwork. For the past few years, travelers who have passed through the hostel have contributed murals to the walls, creating a fun and exciting vibe in the dorms. It's one of the cheapest hostels in Amsterdam, too, so well-worth taking a look at if you're on a tight budget. 
Helpful information: 
Address: Nieuwezijds Voorburgwal 92, 1012 Amsterdam.
Example prices of their rooms: 
Bob's Youth Hostel's Facebook Page.Bob's Youth Hostel's location on Google Maps.
Stayokay Amsterdam Vondelpark is an HI hostel, which means you're guaranteed clean surroundings and modern rooms. This hostel is one of the largest in the city, so if you're there to make friends, it's a great option. If you prefer small, boutique hostels, look elsewhere. 
Helpful information: 
Address: Zandpad 5, 1054 Amsterdam.
Example prices of their rooms: 
Stayokay Amsterdam Vondelpark's Facebook Page.Stayokay Amsterdam Vondelpark's location on Google Maps.
If you want to experience Dutch living while you're in Amsterdam, the best way to do so is by staying in a houseboat on one of the many canals! You can do this through Airbnb and pay up to €100/night for the privilege, or you could opt to stay at Hostelboat Anna Maria II, near Waterloo Square, for a quarter of the price. There are 10 cabins in this rustic boat, ranging from sizeable dorms to private rooms. 
Helpful information: 
Address: Oosterdok t/o 4, Pier 4, 1011 Amsterdam.
Example price of their rooms: 
Hostelboat Anna Maria II's location on Google Maps.
If you're a fan of all things intergalactic, Hostel Cosmos is the place for you! This space-themed hostel is located in a very central area of Amsterdam with Vondelpark within easy walking access. The staff are friendly, the dorm prices are inexpensive, and there's even a hostel cat to keep you company.
Helpful information: 
Address: Nieuwe Nieuwstraat 17, 1012 Amsterdam.
Example prices of their rooms: 
Hostel Cosmos' Facebook Page.Hostel Cosmos' location on Google Maps.
This article has been edited and updated by Lauren Juliff. 
  The Flying Pig Backpacker's Downtown  
  Cocomama Hostel  
  The Bulldog  
  The Flying Pig Uptown (Palace)  
  Amsterdam Cribs  
  Bob's Youth Hostel  
  Stayokay Amsterdam Vondelpark  
 Hostelboat Anna Maria II 
  Hostel Cosmos Amsterdam  
€22.85 for a mixed 6-bed dorm;
€19.35 for a 14-bed mixed dorm;
€16.80 for a 32-bed mixed dorm.
€39 for a mixed 4-bed dorm;
€29 for a mixed 6-bed dorm;
€89 for a private double room.
€25 for 1 bed in an 8-12 bed mixed dormitory; 
€92 for 1 person in a Double Room (private room) 
€15.70 for a bunk in a dorm during low season;
€44.90 per person per night for a private room.
€260 a night for a four-bedroom apartment;
$11.14 a night for a mixed 14-bed dorm with ensuite;
$14.47 a night for a mixed 6-bed dorm with ensuite;
€24.23 a night for mixed 10-bed dorm with breakfast;
€28.98 a night for a female 4-bed dorm with breakfast;
€65.55 a night for private twin with ensuite and breakfast
€24.00 for a quad room.
€15.00 a night for a mixed 12-bed dorm; 
€15.00 a night for a male 6-bed dorm;
€25.00 a night for private twin with ensuite
Amsterdam is a city of contradictions. Most of it looks like a 17th-century city, but Amsterdam is progressive and open, unlike any other European city. A day is not nearly long enough to explore the 70 islands, 60 miles of canals, 1000 bridges, and the largest Old Town in Europe. However, most cruise lines only port at Amsterdam for the day, leaving the passengers wanting more as the ship sails. Others use Amsterdam as an embarkation point, and river cruises on the Rhine River or on spring tulip cruises include time in Amsterdam. If your cruise is embarking or disembarking in Amsterdam, you can extend your vacation and use the time to explore the city and the surrounding countryside. 
If you only have a day or two in Amsterdam, here are some interesting things to do. Don't feel like you have to do them all - choose those that appeal to you, or let the weather be your guide.
Most ocean and river cruise ships will offer a half- or full-day highlights tour that will give you a chance to get a feel of the city and see some of the bridges, canals, and architecture. The tours usually include a bus ride around the city, a canal ride, and entrance into the Rijksmuseum. A tour of the Anne Frank House is not included on these highlight tours.
Amsterdam has museums for all tastes. Several are located in a large park area within walking distance of each other. The Rijksmuseum is the national museum of the Netherlands. With about 200 rooms, you could easily spend the day here. If your time is limited, and you want to see many of Rembrandt's most famous works, like the Night Watch, go to the Gallery of Honor on the upper floor of the main building. Elsewhere in the Rijksmuseum are exhibits of architecture and antiquities. There is also a large dollhouse collection.<br/>The Vincent van Gogh Museum includes 200 of his paintings (donated by Van Gogh's brother Theo) and 500 drawings as well as works by other well known 19th century artists. It is located near the Rijksmuseum.Next to the van Gogh Museum, the Stedelijk Modern Art Museum is filled with fun works by trendy contemporary artists. Major movements of the last century such as modernism, pop art, action painting, and neo-realism are represented.The Dutch Resistance Museum (Verzetsmuseum), across the street from the zoo, has displays explaining the Dutch resistance to the German occupying forces of World War II. Propaganda movie clips and touching stories of efforts to hide local Jews from the Germans bring the terrors of living in an occupied city to life. Interestingly, the museum is also near the location of the former Schouwburg theater, which was used as a holding place for Jews awaiting transport to concentration camps. The theater is now a memorial. To get a feel for occupied Holland, you might want to rent and watch the movie "Soldier of Orange" before leaving home.It might be surprising to hear that Amsterdam is home to a large Museum of the Tropics (Tropenmuseum). If you remember that the Netherlands' explorers traveled to Indonesia and the West Indies. The museum's architecture is interesting, and it has displays portraying life in the tropics. There is also a large children's museum upstairs, but adults can only visit if accompanied by a child!Those interested in architecture or the Dutch culture of the early 20th century will enjoy theMuseum Het Schip. Michel de Klerk designed this apartment building in the Amsterdam style of architecture for the working class, and it has many interesting details, including a residence that looks like it hasn't been changed since the 1920's, and a Post Office.<br/>Looking for something really different? How about a sex museum? Amsterdam has two sex museums, one in the Red Light District, and the other a block from Central Station on Damrak. I didn't visit either (although I walked by the one on Damrak by accident).
This is a good way to see the city, especially if it is raining and you don't want to walk! The Canal-Boat tours leave continually from several docks around the city for a one-hour introduction to Amsterdam.
Page 2 > > More Things to Do in Amsterdam > >
For many visitors to Amsterdam, this is a "must do". However, you must time your visit right, or you will spend more time waiting in line than in the house! You will have to visit on your own, because the house is so small that no shore excursion groups are scheduled by any of the cruise lines, and no tour groups are allowed.
Buy your tickets online before you go, and you will not have to stand in line. Avoid the crowds and go early, or avoid the crowds and go after dinner (unless your ship is sailing). From April to August, the museum is open from 9:00 am to 9:00 pm. The rest of the year it closes at 5:00 pm. This tiny house is one of the world's most visited. Whenever I think of the story of Anne Frank and her family, hiding in the tiny attic for two years before their capture, it always brings tears to my eyes. Seeing that tiny space and reading about the persecution of the Jews in Amsterdam during the War will be moving to anyone.
Walking is one of my favorite activities, and I love exploring the city and the country. Ships dock near the Central Station, so you can walk there to start your wandering. You can either walk around or through the back door of the Central Station and exit onto Damrak, one of Amsterdam's main streets. Damrak is always filled with visitors, and you can stroll along the street to Dam Square, the city center. This square was where the original dam was built across the Amstel River. East of Dam Square is the Red Light District. Although I wouldn't recommend wandering around this area after dark, it always seems perfectly safe in the daytime or early evening. Be sure to also stroll up and down the narrow streets and gaze at the interesting architecture and canals.
If you are looking for fun, this interactive tour and beer museum has it. The Heineken brewery was great fun. We learned a lot about beer making and also had the "Heineken experience", which was a little like a Disney World tour. You stand in this room and watch a movie about the beer-making process. Along the way, you will get shook, wet, and have bubbles all around. (They make you put up your cameras before starting the "ride".) You don't actually go anywhere, but will do quite a bit of moving.
At the end of the tour, you will learn how to pour beer (2 fingers of foam on top to keep the oxygen out) and get a short glass. Then you go into the pub where you will get a large one. It's both fun and educational.
If you are in Amsterdam between late December and May, you might want to visit a tulip farm to see how tulips are grown, harvested, and taken to market. This is a short, one-hour tour, but it's really fascinating to see how mechanized this family's farm is.
Many cruisers have visited Amsterdam and want to see the rest of Holland. Most ocean cruise ships offer a Grand Holland Tour, which features a drive through the countryside and visits the Hague and Delft. Since The Hague is the country's seat of government and home of the royal family, you will see the Royal Palace, Houses of Parliament, and the Peace Palace. Delft is the home of that wonderful blue and white pottery. This tour lasts all day and usually includes lunch. Note that you won't see any of Amsterdam if you choose this shore excursion.
Those on tulip time river cruises will see more of the countryside, small towns, tulips, and windmills, much like I did from the Viking Europe and AmaLegro.
  Take an Amsterdam Highlights Tour.  
 ​​​​​​​​Visit a Museum (or several). 
  Take a Ride on Amsterdam's Canals.  
 Visit the Anne Frank House. 
  Stroll the City of Amsterdam.  
 Enjoy the Heineken Experience 
 Visit a Dutch Tulip Farm 
  Take a Grand Tour of Holland and See Some of the Rest of the Netherlands.  
Amsterdam visitors on the hunt for vacation reads have plentiful options. Here are some of the top sources for English-language books in Amsterdam.
The American Book Center AmsterdamSpui 121012 XA AmsterdamTel.: +31 (0)20 625 5537This beautifully-appointed bookstore, situated on Het Spui - a mecca for book lovers in Amsterdam - boasts an enormous variety of books spread over four floors. Enthusiastic amateurs serve as buyers to ensure that each section is presided over by someone with passion and interest in their subject. The extensive and very non-Dutch business hours are a plus for out-of-town customers who aren't used to the typically Dutch closed-at-5-sharp practices.
The Book ExchangeKloveniersburgwal 581012 CX AmsterdamTel.: +31 (0)20 626 6266This one-man operation, established in 1978, is the city's best independent source for used books. The upper level is devoted to paperback fiction for that perfect vacation read, while the lower level is filled with more specialized sections such as Travel; the basement contains fantasy fiction but also veers towards more intellectual reads.
New English Book StoreKalverstraat 2231012 XC AmsterdamTel.: +31 (0)20 624 9789While rather devoid of atmosphere, the New English Bookstore scores points for value and its convenient location. The bookstore specializes in publisher's overstocks - i.e., the books left over when the publisher overestimates the demand for a title - which it sells at rock-bottom prices, as much as 90% off. Located on the popular retail street Kalverstraat, it's worth a stop for passersby in search of cheap reads.
Waterstone'sKalverstraat 1521012 XE AmsterdamTel.: +31 (0)20 638 3821For British readers, Waterstones need no introduction, but for others, it's useful to note that this is the only branch of a chain of 300+ bookstores in Great Britain and Ireland. Its location on Kalverstraat and Het Spui puts it in the corner of the most bookish square in Amsterdam.
Several Dutch bookstores also stock an extensive selection of English-language books:
Athenaeum Boekhandel & NieuwscentrumSpui 14-161012 XA AmsterdamTel.: +31 (0)20 514 1460 (bookstore); +31 (0)20 514 1470 (newsstand)One of the more "bookish" bookstores in Amsterdam, Athenaeum is known for its intellectual titles and its place in the Amsterdam literary world. The bookstore, with its ties to Amsterdam's universities, has a vast selection of academic titles, while the adjacent newsstand is an excellent source for international newspapers and other periodicals.
Boekenmarkt aan Het SpuiHet Spui1012 XA AmsterdamWhile not technically a bookstore, this weekly rare and used book market is one of the forces responsible for Het Spui's reputation as a must-see destination for book lovers in Amsterdam. Some 25 booksellers peddle their wares on the leafy square, where visitors are liable to pick up the most spectacular finds.
selexyz scheltemaRokin 9, 1012 KK Amsterdam, NetherlandsTel.: +31 (0)20 523 1411"selexyz scheltema" (lowercase letters intended) feels a lot like the Barnes & Noble of Amsterdam, with its wide selection of mainstream books and an in-house branch of one of the Netherlands' most widespread cafe chains, Bagels & Beans. Its five floors of books overlook the lively Koningsplein - which can also be seen via the TERENA Webcam Koningsplein, part of our list of Amsterdam web cams.
  English-Language Bookstores in Amsterdam  
