Athens is one of the great ports of call on Eastern Mediterranean cruises. It has many things that cruise travelers love—great history, culture, food, and people. The city is also easy to navigate on foot since the Acropolis is in view around much of the city center. Although Athens seems to sprawl for miles, many of the most fascinating and important sites of the old town are located in a relatively small area.
Although many cruise travelers are in Athens for only a day, many others add a few days to either the beginning or end of their cruise in order to see the major sites of this ancient city.
Everyone has different favorites and priorities. With just a day or two in Athens, these are eight places worthy of your precious time. 
The Athenaeum Intercontinental Athens is a 543-room hotel has all the features you would expect from a property in this chain. The rooms and bathrooms are spacious, clean, and modern. However, it's not in the city center, but does operate a free shuttle to take guests into the city. The hotel is very busy and a good choice if you expect all the amenities and space you would get in a nice hotel in the USA.
The Economy Hotel is in a perfect location, within walking distance of the major sites in the center of Athens. It's a small property near the old City Hall and only about 5 blocks from Monastiraki Square. The rooms and bathrooms are tiny, but the air conditioning works well and the price is excellent. The desk staff is knowledgeable and very willing to help you plan your time in Athens.
Explore other hotels in Athens, Greece using Trip Advisor.
Anyone who loves Mediterranean food will be happy with most places to dine in Athens. In the city center, there are many good restaurants, most with outdoor dining. Most have the menus posted outside. Just look for one that is busy or has seating that appeals to you. 
The area around Monastiraki Square and the nearby Psiri (also spelled Psyrri) area have many casual outdoor dining places with good food and good prices. I've eaten at the Aischylou Grill House and the Klimataria Taverna in the Psiri area and enjoyed them both. The two restaurants were located between the Economy Hotel and Monastiraki Square and featured traditional Greek dishes like gyro meat, kebabs, tzatziki sauce, and Greek salad. Everyone who visits Athens should try these four things when in the city at least once. 
Those looking for an excellent restaurant with one of the best evening views in Athens should check out Hytra, which is a rooftop restaurant at the Onassis Cultural Center. The food is delicious and the views of the Acropolis match the cuisine.
Another excellent restaurant is Varoulko Seaside, which is found on the dock at the Mikrolimano marina in Piraeus. Chef Lefteris Lazarou opened the memorable restaurant in 1987 and earned Varoulko the first Michelin star ever awarded to a restaurant serving Greek food in Greece in 2002. Varoulko is justifiably considered one of the "top restaurants" in Athens.
Unlike other European countries, please keep in mind that tipping is expected.
Seeing the Acropolis is at the top of most visitors' lists when they come to Athens. This huge hill can easily be seen from the city center, and the monuments on top are some of the most important of the ancient world. Plus, they are among the most recognizable. Who hasn't heard of the Parthenon?
As seen in the photo above, the views of the Acropolis from the city below are amazing. However, the views from the top are even better. It's quite a hike up to the Parthenon, and the marble sidewalks are very slippery, but it's worth the effort for those who are able.
The Parthenon on the Acropolis in Athens is the building that comes to mind when someone is looking for a great example of classical Greek architecture. The building was dedicated to the goddess Athena, and a magnificent gold and ivory statue of her once graced the inside of the Parthenon. Unfortunately, this statue was destroyed hundreds of years ago.
In the late 18th and early 19th centuries, the Earl of Elgin, a British archaeologist, moved many of the pieces of artwork on the Acropolis not destroyed over the centuries to the British Museum in London. The Greek government has wanted these "Elgin marbles" returned ever since. Greece has even built the marvelous Acropolis museum that will showcase these marble pieces if/when they are returned.
The New Acropolis Museum opened in 2009, but is still called the "new" museum to avoid confusion with the "old" Acropolis museum, which is a building on top of the Acropolis that was closed in June 2007 so that the artwork inside could be moved to the New Acropolis Museum.
The New Acropolis Museum is very impressive and has quickly been recognized as one of the best in the world. Although many of the "Elgin marbles" are in London, the museum has enough amazing pieces that you forget about those that are missing (unless you are Greek). Bright white replicas of each missing marble piece are used to demonstrate to visitors exactly where the originals will eventually rest when returned.
The New Acropolis Museum sits at the foot of the Acropolis and offers great views of it. The layout is well-designed, and there's even a nice cafe with indoor and outdoor seating. The outdoor seating has some of the best views of the Acropolis in the city.
Caryatids are female figures that take the place of support columns in a building. The word literally translates in Greek as "maidens of Karyai," which was an ancient Greek town on the Peloponnese.
This type of column is frequently seen in Greek and Roman architecture. Sometimes the term is supposed to mean "supportive women", but most often is associated with the six Caryatids who supported part of the Erechtheum, a 5th century BC building on the Acropolis in Athens.
One section of the Erechtheum is called the Porch of the Maidens and replicas of the six original Caryatids are still seen holding up the porch of the Erechtheum on the Acropolis. Five of the originals are prominently displayed at the Acropolis Museum in Athens. Art restorers used a specially constructed laser beam to clean these five caryatids between 2011 and 2015. Visitors to the museum could watch the restorers live at work via a television monitor. Although the five Erechtheum Caryatids are now cleaned and on exhibit, visitors can still watch this tedious process via re-runs, and it makes one appreciate today's technology. The sixth Caryatid is at the British Museum in London, but the new porch of the maidens in the new Acropolis Museum has an empty pedestal waiting for her arrival.
The agora was ancient Athens marketplace. Vendors first started using the space as a market in the 6th century BC and continued for about 1,200 years. During this time, the agora was more than a shopping mall. Politicians, theologians, economists, businessmen, athletes, and philosophers made it the central hub of the city. The agora was where Socrates and St. Paul both spoke to the crowds and is located at the foot of the Acropolis.
Today, much of the agora is a grassy remnant, but it's a nice place to walk around and try and imagine the thousands who once filled the area each day. The Stoa of Attalos seen in the photo above was built in the second century BC and was reconstructed by the American School of Archaeology in 1956. This ancient shopping mall was originally filled with small shops, but today holds a very nice museum with most of the significant findings from the archaeological digs at the agora.
The most beautiful original building of the agora is the Temple of Hephaestus, which was dedicated to both Hephaestus and Athena. This temple can be easily seen from the Acropolis.
Entrance to the agora is included in the price of the Acropolis ticket, and those who walk up to the top of the Acropolis from the Monastiraki Square/Athens flea market area can buy the joint ticket at the entrance to the agora.
 Taylor McIntyre / © TripSavvy
The first modern Olympic games were held in this marble stadium in 1896. It is also called the Panathenaic Stadium since it was built on the site of the original wooden stadium that dated back to the 4th century BC. In the 2004 Olympic Games, this stadium was used for the archery competition and as the finish line for the 26.2-mile marathon.
Syntagma Square (Plateia Syntagma or Constitution Square) is considered the center of modern Athens. However, it's only a few blocks from the Plaka and much of the old city. The square is across the street from the beautiful neoclassical Greek Parliament building, so it has often been the site of political demonstrations.
The Greek Parliament building started out as a palace for King Otto when it was constructed in 1842. However, the citizens of Greece did not like the lavish spending of this Bavarian king and protested in the square in front of this luxurious palace. King Otto continued to reign, but was subsequently deposed in 1862.
The building was neglected for decades and even served as a homeless shelter in 1923. After a parliamentary form of government returned to Greece, the building was renovated in the late 1920's and has been used as the home of the Greek Parliament since 1935.
Although the library is open to the public, most visitors come to the Parliament building to see the guards at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
The presidential guards marching so majestically in front of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at the Parliament Building in Athens are the Evzones, who are volunteers drawn from the Hellenic Army's Infantry Corps. The name Evzone is shared with an elite light infantry and mountain units of the Greek army.
Tourists come to see the guards in their traditional uniform, which is similar to the clothes worn by the klephts, a group of mountain insurgents and thieves who fought the Ottoman occupation of Greece from the 15th to the 19th century. (The term kleptomania has the same Greek root word.)
In this photo, the Evzones have on their beige summer workday uniforms. On Sundays and for special occasions, these guards wear their full dress white uniforms. The "kilt", which is actually called a fustanella in Greece, is part of traditional men's clothing in the Balkans. Each piece of the uniform has a special meaning. For example, the fustanellas on the full dress uniforms have 400 pleats--one for each year of Ottoman rule over Greece.
The elite Evzone guards change every hour, with a ceremony taking place at 5 minutes before the hour all day long. You can tell it's almost time for the arrival of tour buses and other travelers, cameras in hand. The ceremony is a fairly simple changing of the guards, but just watching these handsome, tall young men march and stand at attention is worthwhile. They also march in front of the tomb on the half-hour (I assume to help the circulation after standing at attention for 30 minutes.) Visitors can have their photos made with the guards, as long as it is one at a time--and no selfies.
On Sunday, a more elaborate changing of the guard ceremony takes place at 11 am.
Each Sunday at 11 am, a longer, more elaborate changing of the guard ceremony takes place at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at the Greek Parliament Building in Athens on Syntagma Square. Bands play, the elite Evzone guards march, and it's quite festive.
The only downside of this ceremony is that it is usually much more crowded than the regular changing of the guard that occurs hourly throughout the week. Even if you go early, rude people may end up standing in front of you. Just enjoy the parade and go back another time to see the actual changing ceremony.
Those who love ancient Greece could easily spend several days in this fantastic museum. 
So many times, I was at an archaeological site like Akrotiri on Santorini or the World Heritage site of Delos and read that an artifact was on display at the National Archaeological Museum. It was marvelous to finally see some of those pieces.
The museum is laid out in chronological order, but it is very large, so you might want to study the map/brochure you receive when buying a ticket to plan your time or take along a favorite guidebook.
Almost every item in the National Archaeological Museum in Athens has a fascinating story.
Scientists are uncertain whether this bronze statue from the 5th century BC is Zeus or Poseidon. If this magnificent specimen of a man, who must be a god, is holding a thunderbolt, he's Zeus; if it's a trident, he's Poseidon. Unfortunately, when the statue was found in a shipwreck off Cape Artemision in 1928, the weapon was missing. The debate has been ongoing for almost 100 years, but it doesn't really matter to me since it's an impressive piece of sculpture. (And, doesn't he look great to be over 2500 years old?)
Like the rest of Greece, Athens has many churches, and those touring the capital city should try and visit at least one. The Metropolitan Cathedral, which is near this church, is the head church of the Greek Orthodox faith.
The church sits in the middle of Ermou Street, one of Athens busiest pedestrian shopping streets. 
Varoulko Seaside Restaurant is one of Athens best restaurants. Its delicious Greek menu and outstanding chef earned the restaurant a Michelin star in 2002.
The restaurant is located at the Mikrolimano marina in Piraeus but is worth a taxi ride if you want to have an exceptional dining experience.
Our group enjoyed a memorable set-menu meal at the Varoulko Seaside Restaurant in Athens. While dining, we could watch the marina just outside the huge sliding glass doors.  Here's a list of the items on our menu to give readers an idea of some of the dishes available:
Hytra is in a great location on the roof of the Onassis Cultural Center in Athens. Its food is outstanding and its view is terrific—the Acropolis. Here's an example menu:
Doesn't this Greek salad remind you of Greece? Can you see the size of those giant olives? This Greek salad from the Aischylou Grill House is one of many terrific salads you can enjoy while in Athens (and elsewhere in Greece).
Traditional Greek salads are made with tomatoes, cucumbers, peppers, olives, onion, feta cheese, olive oil, and herbs, but no lettuce.
Like Greek salad, this tzatziki sauce is a favorite. It's delicious with grilled meats or bread ​and is made with strained Greek yogurt, cucumbers, garlic, salt, olive oil, lemon juice, and sometimes dill, mint, or parsley.
Gyro meat served in pita bread was probably the first fast food, and visitors to Athens can still find a gyro sandwich to take away and eat on a park bench. Although it can be made at home, it sounds way too complicated.
Either a gyro meat platter or souvlaki are the most popular main dishes at most Greek restaurants in Athens. Both can be made from beef, lamb, pork, veal, or chicken. The gyro meat is ground, pressed, cooked, and sliced; the souvlaki meat is marinated and cooked on skewers like a small kebab. Sometimes the souvlaki meat is ground and mixed with something delicious like pistachio nuts before marinating and cooking on the skewers.
Monastiraki Square is one of the main squares in Athens. The name Monastiraki means, "little monastery", and it does have a small cute church in its center. Monastiraki has many streets leading away from it that provides access to restaurants, the Athens flea market, and major retail stores. As seen in the next photo, it's a very popular gathering place in the evening.
Monastiraki Square is packed with people in the evening and probably even more so when a full moon is up over the Acropolis!
When walking on a busy pedestrian street in Athens, you might feel like you are in any other city in Europe until you look up and see the unique Acropolis in the distance.
Of the 25 U.S. metro areas with the highest percentage of gay and lesbian households, two are in Georgia. You might guess that Atlanta is one of these - Athens is the other.
There are several reasons so many gays and lesbians choose to live in this city of 120,000, which makes for a very enjoyable weekend trip from Atlanta, Charlotte, Nashville, and other key cities in the Southeast. The University of Georgia (UGA) fosters an open-minded, tolerant population, as does the edgy arts, theater, and live-music scene, which has cultivated such queer-relevant music acts as the B-52s, the Indigo Girls, and R.E.M. (out rocker Michael Stipe resides here). Vegetarian Times has called Athens one of the country's best cities for noncarnivores.
Like other big collegiate communities in the Southeast, such as Chapel Hill, North Carolina and Charlottesville, Virginia, Athens provides a big mix of arts, culture, lively nightlife, first-rate restaurants, and gay-friendliness into a relatively small, affordable, and accessible package.
Every April (next year's date is expected to be April 22, 2017), Athens hosts the Boybutante Ball, an AIDS benefit with drag fetes, concerts, a women's dance, and a campy gala ball held at the famed 40 Watt Club. This is the gayest event in a city that hosts countless fun gatherings, from AthFest Music and Arts Festival in June to the Taste of Athens food celebration in February.
Major Athens Events in 2016-2017:
Athens - one of the few Georgia communities spared by Gen. William T. Sherman during his infamous Civil War "March to the Sea" - contains numerous antebellum homes, most of them within 13 national historic districts.
America's first state-chartered university, The University of Georgia (information on guided and self-guided campus tours) abuts the dapper and walkable downtown; the historic North Campus (at S. Jackson and E. Broad Sts.) is ideal for a leisurely stroll. Stop by two-and-a-half-acre Founders Memorial Garden, a tribute to the 12 women who established the Ladies Garden Club of Athens in 1861 (the first of its kind in America). This is just a preview, however, of what you'll see at the 313-acre State Botanical Gardens of Georgia (706-542-6159, 2450 S. Milledge Ave.), where a glass conservatory with tropical plants complements thousands of colorful outdoor plantings. The gardens are about 5 miles south of downtown.
The exceptional Georgia Museum of Art (90 Carlton St., 706-542-4662) is on the University of Georgia's East Campus, in a dramatic contemporary building that completed a major expansion in 2011. The superb collection contains more than 8,000 permanent works and is notable for its American (including Southern folk), with works by several GBLT notables, including Paul Cadmus, Georgia O'Keeffe, Marsden Hartley, Thomas Eakins, and Andy Warhol. There are excellent rotating shows throughout the year.
In downtown Athens, art collectors should explore downtown's Clayton Street, a strip of reputable galleries showing important, often provocative, works. Several fun boutiques and shops are along Clayton and the intersecting blocks as well. Culture vultures appreciate the many top-notch performance venues in town, from cozy historic theaters to the esteemed University of Georgia Performing Arts Center.
Athens has no shortage of memorable dining options, many of them serving sophisticated fare priced for budget-minded students and artists. The city has become a bastion of farm-to-table, regional dining.
One of the first restaurants to put the city on the national dining map was Five & Ten (1073 S. Milledge Ave., 706-546-7300), which remains a stalwart for its stellar contemporary cuisine and first-rate wine list - consider the modern take on classic Lowcountry Frogmore stew (with Georgia shrimp, fingerling potatoes, leek, corn, spicy andouille sausage, and leek-tomato broth), as well as velvety corn soup with poached shrimp, vanilla, and tarragon. Chef Hugh Acheson is also behind downtown Athens's wonderful Mediterranean-inspired eatery, The National (232 W. Hancock Ave., 706-549-3450) as well as Atlanta's vaunted Empire State South and Savannah's fine eatery, The Florence.
You'll find a strip of hot dining spots downtown along West Washington, including the Trappeze Pub (269 N. Hull St. at W. Washington St., 706-543-8997), a nice choice for any meal. This rambling gastropub specialize in local and international craft beers (try the 90 Shilling, produced locally at Athens' Terrapin Beer Co., at which tours and tastings are available. The lively Trappeze is justly famous for its version of a regional classic snack: boiled "p-nuts". Also consider beer-and-cheddar soup (again made Terrapin Golden) with spiced bacon, and the "double pig" sandwich (braised pork and bacon) with house-made pickled green beans.
Some tables at the beloved Last Resort Grill (174-184 W. Clayton St., 706-549-0810) overlook an exhibition kitchen where talented chefs juggle pots and pans sizzling with Carolina crab cakes or house-braised pork belly roasted with an ancho glaze. In a building part-owned by Michael Stipe, The Grit (199 Prince Ave., 706-543-6592) serves up delicious vegetarian faves, such as tabouli salad and black-bean chili. Relax with Athens' intelligentsia at Jittery Joe's Coffee (297 E. Broad St., 706-613-7449), a sunny coffeehouse facing North Campus (there are a few other Jittery Joe's locations around town, too).
You could spend a week in this town without making your way through all the celebrated eateries - no-frills Taqueria Sr Sol (175 Tallassee Rd., 706-546-1570) for flavorful Mexican fare; Weaver D's (1016 E. Broad St., 706-353-7797) for sublimely delicious soul food; and cheerful Mama's Boy (197 Oak St., 706-548-6249) down-home brunches and lunches are also worth seeking out.
The city has plenty of chain options, in all price ranges, many on the outskirts of town. To truly soak up the city's vibrant personality, consider staying at one of the handful of very nice hotels in the pedestrian-friendly downtown. One of the newest and most striking of these is the hip Hotel Indigo-Athens (500 College Ave., 706-546-0430), a handsome, LEED-certified mid-rise with smartly designed rooms and a fun vibe - there's a nice little gym on-site, a fun bar and restaurant (Madison Bar & Bistro), and a cool live-music venue called the Rialto Room. It's part of the gay-friendly Indigo boutique hotel brand.
Formerly known as the Foundry Park Inn & Spa, the gloriously hip and smartly designed Graduate Athens (295 E. Dougherty St., 706-549-7020) offers among the coolest and most interesting downtown accommodations - this former motor lodge has been converted into a stylish boutique hotel with a full-service spa and an exceptional bar and restaurant (The Foundry) serving modern takes on regional American fare and featuring some great live bands in the bar, and a first-rate coffee lounge, Iron Works Coffee. You'll also find a few other reliable chain hotels downtown - good bets include centrally located Hilton Garden Inn - Athens Downtown (390 E. Washington St., 706-353-6800), and the campus-adjacent Holiday Inn Athens (197 E. Broad St., 706-549-4433).
Fans of B&Bs should check out the gay-welcoming inn The Colonels (3890 Barnett Shoals Rd., 706-559-9595), a stately, white-columned, 1860s plantation house that contains seven handsomely furnished rooms (some of them can be joined together as suites). The inn is a 15-minute drive southeast of downtown and UGA campus.
Music fans from all around head to Athens to catch alternative-rock acts at downtown's seminal 40 Watt Club (285 W. Washington St., 706-549-7871), which is always hosting talented bands on the cusp of fame. Notable acts who built their following at 40 Watt include R.E.M., the B-52s, the Indigo Girls, Widespread Panic, and Pylon, but over the years patrons have caught countless other notables - 10,000 Maniacs, Bob Mould, and so on. The club also hosts the annual Boybutante Ball, one of the South's top GLBT fundraising events.
Athens hasn't had an official gay bar since long-running Boneshaker's closed in 2005. But the many bars and music clubs downtown and virtually all gay-friendly, this being a city with sizable GLBT population, and you're only an a little more than an hour from the lively gay bar scene in Atlanta. Note also that Atlanta's wonderfully offbeat homage to pop art, kitsch, and dive-bar drinking, Sister Louisa's Church (254 W. Clayton St., 706-850-3668) has an inviting outpost here in Athens.
Some of the restaurants covered in the Restaurant Guide, including Last Resort Grill, The National, and Trappeze Pub, also cultivate lively bar scenes. If you can't decide between coffee or a cocktail, check out atmospheric Walker's Coffee & Pub (128 College Ave., 706-543-1433), which is steps from UGA campus. Another favorite around town for hobnobbing and hoisting a mug is the lovably dive-y Manhattan Bar (337 N. Hull St., 706-369-9767).
Following a devastating fire, the legendary and historic Georgia Theatre (215 N. Lumpkin St., 706-850-7670) reopened following a beautiful rebuild. The rooftop bar and restaurant is an enjoyable spot for a drink or a snack. The theater books plenty of prominent bands and cool concerts.
Looking for flights to Athens? All of these airlines offer flights to Athens, Greece on a regular basis. Some offer daily flights. Schedules may vary over the course of the year. If you're flying from one of these cities, or if you can get a cheap flight to these origination cities and then use one of the smaller airlines, you may be able to save substantial money. And remember, some smaller carriers may not show up in the major online travel site databases.
Airlines change constantly; check the information on AIA, which includes some seasonal airlines as well.
Spend 48 hours in Athens and you can experience some truly fascinating history; ancient architecture and archaeology; spectacular views; magical, scented pine woods. Or you can dine out in style; shop for the latest contemporary design; see cutting-edge art exhibits and dance the night away at a techno rave.
You don't actually have to choose. In this lively, sophisticated Mediterranean city, ancient and modern coexist, happily inseparable. People-watch in a café and you'll recognize the faces of the statues and frescoes in Athens' museums; in the markets and bars, you'll overhear the lively discussions that might once have rung out across the ancient agora.
They say that if you dig a hole anywhere in Athens, you'll discover archaeology. And that's been proven at almost every Metro station built for the Athens Olympics in 2009. There, in large glass-fronted mini museums or embedded in the walls, are all the ancient artifacts found at that location.
Luckily, the attractions of Athens, old and new, are within a compact area and easy to see on a short visit. Check into a hotel handy for all the sites:
Athens can be very hot and dry during the popular vacation season from June through September. You'll need these absolute essentials to stay comfortable:
12 noon: Ease yourself into Athens rhythms with a traditional lunch on the terrace of Gods Restaurant, just across from the Acropolis Museum. This family-owned restaurant is in a prime location on pedestrian Makriyianni Street. It may be on the tourist trail but it has loads of fans — including the locals — and it puts you in the perfect spot for the rest of the afternoon without having to worry about travel arrangements. They set out their daily specials in glass cases, but if you've just arrived in Greece, steer clear of the food on display and go for freshly grilled fish, souvlaki, gyro or kebab and a Greek salad.
1:30 p.m.: Watch an artisan craftsman shape 24K gold into classically inspired jewelry, using methods that have changed very little in millennia, at the Ilias Lalaounis Jewelry Museum. Lalaounis, who died in 2013, was an internationally acclaimed goldsmith and sculptor in precious metals. He was to Athens what Tiffany was to New York, Cartier to Paris, Bulgari to Rome. His work, inspired by ancient art and historic finds, was worn by celebrities, presented to kings and even appeared in films. The museum, housed in his former workshop, is now run as a non-profit cultural and education institution. Its exhibits include 3,000 items from 50 collections as well as temporary exhibitions from all over the world. There's a model workshop on the ground floor where a jeweler makes small items and demonstrates ancient techniques.
3:15 p.m.: When workers began to excavate the foundations of the Acropolis Museum, they discovered an unknown Byzantine street and a complete street of domestic houses from the classical period. Rather than excavate the archaeology and then bury the ancient site in the foundations of the new building, they designed the museum to float above it on pillars. After entering across the excavations on a flying bridge, visitors may be slightly unnerved to find themselves on a glass "ground floor", looking down on the ancient street. The museum was built to house everything excavated on the Acropolis Hill and in the cult caves on its slopes. It's arrangement over three floors matches the march of history from the prehistoric period to the Romans. The Parthenon, atop the Acropolis Hill, looks down on the Parthenon Gallery, built to house the marbles from its frieze. The only replicas in the museum are here, emphasizing that the real marbles, also known as the Elgin Marbles, are not here but in the British Museum in London.
 6 p.m.: Have a wander in Plaka. Sooner or later, most visitors head there only to be disappointed by how touristy it is, with its seemingly endless souvenir shops all selling the same things. But finding the treasures in Athens oldest continuously inhabited area is worth a little effort. Plaka wraps around the base of the Acropolis on the north and east sides, a maze of narrow streets lined with wooden houses. Look for the photo opportunities of pastel-colored houses draped in bougainvillea, interesting Greek design shops like Forget Me Not at 100 Adrianou and casual tavernas in shady squares. Most of the shops in Plaka stay open until at least 8 pm — some to 10 pm — so you have plenty of time to explore. Take a break at one for a cappuccino freddo, a cold cappuccino topped with frothy cold milk or a frappé, an old-fashioned Athenian favorite made with instant coffee, ice and condensed milk.  
Once you're refreshed, hunt for Anafiotika, a magical "island" neighborhood hidden against the slopes of the Acropolis. It was created in the 19th century by settlers from the island of Anafi, and once you've found it, you will believe you've been transported to an island in the Cyclades. Its boxy little, whitewashed houses, with blue painted shutters and pots of geraniums, are arranged along narrow lanes that end abruptly and staircases that lead nowhere, spreading up the northeast corner of the Acropolis. To find it, head up Erechtheos Street, toward Pritania Street, turn right and across from the church called Metochi Panagio Tafou, look for ways to go uphill. You'll see lots of signs for dead ends and cul-de-sacs that look like private roads as well as twisting staircases that look private too. They aren't. These are the lanes and streets of Anafiotika. Explore and enjoy the views.
7:30 p.m.: Time for drinks and dinner. If you've been exploring Anafiotika, you should be very close to one of the Plaka's best and most picturesque tavernas, Psaras, at the intersection of Erotokritou and Erechtheos streets. The restaurant has a huge menu that's strong on traditional dishes — dolmades, lamb kleftiko — but also great for vegetarians and seafood lovers. It's popular, so worth booking online ahead of time. Request an outside table — they are arranged on wide, flower decorated stone steps, that lead up through the district.​​
8-8:30 a.m.: If you are in Athens for the first or the fifteenth time, a visit to the Acropolis is a must. Get an early start to avoid the biggest crowds and the heat of the day. Wear sturdy shoes and carry at least two bottles of water — once you enter the World Heritage sites, there won't be any place to get a drink before lunch.
There's a lot to see. Start your visit with a leisurely climb up the Dionyssiou Areopagitou, a wide pedestrian avenue that winds through the pine woods and the archaeological sites of the south slope of Acropolis Hill.  Before the entrance to the sacred precinct, stop first to visit the Ancient Theatre of Dionysus. This is the oldest surviving theater in the world. Built in the 5th century B.C., it was here, before an audience of 17,000, that the plays of Aeschylus, Aristophanes, Euripides and Sophocles were first performed. About 20 rows of the original 60 rows of seats remain as well as the original diamond mosaic on the stage floor. The site opens at 8:30 am. You can buy a multi-day ticket for all the monuments on the Acropolis as well as the Ancient Agora and several other archaeological sites and museums at the ticket office here. It's €30 but there is an enormous range of categories of free or discounted tickets.
9:15 a.m.: Continue upwards and westward toward the entrance to the sacred precinct on top of the of the Acropolis. It's up a wide set of very worn marble stairs and through a gateway known as the Propylaia.
It doesn't matter how many pictures of the Parthenon you've seen in books, brochures and postcards — when you walk through those gates and see it for the first time it looks, at once, exactly as you expected and so much better than you ever imagined. Give in and take the same pictures that everyone else is taking, it is a transcendent experience.
Beside the Parthenon, there are two other significant temples on the Acropolis dedicated to different aspects of Athena and built during the Golden Age of Pericles in the 5th century BC:
Before you leave the sacred rock, take some time to enjoy the 360-degree views of Athens, its thousands of whitewashed houses splashing like seafoam over the landscape and its steep hills. 
10 a.m.: Leave the Acropolis the way you entered and turn right in front of the main ticket kiosk, continuing downhill on the eastern slope into the Ancient Agora of Athens.
There are restrooms near the main ticket kiosk, and now would probably be a good time to take advantage of them. The gift shop, also near the kiosk, has some nice merchandise inspired by artifacts excavated from the site.
On the way down, the rocky hill ending in a steep ledge to your left is Areopagus Hill, site of the world's oldest law courts. It's mentioned in the Greek tragedy, the Oresteia, as the place where Orestes was tried for the murder of his mother and her lover. The Apostle Paul addressed the Athenians there in 51AD and a bronze plaque at the bottom of the hill commemorates his sermons.
The Ancient Agora is a quiet, green space overlooked by the Temple of Hephaistos, said to be the best-preserved temple of ancient Greece. There are several lovely shaded paths down through the agora from the temple to the Stoa of Attalos. This two-story building with its columned portico and tile roof was a sort of antique shopping mall, circa 159-138BC with 21 shops on each floor. The current building was reconstructed from existing ruins by the American School of Classical Studies at Athens in the 1950s. The small museum inside has materials excavated in the Agora, including ostraca, the inscribed clay potsherds used to vote in the world's first democracy.
12 noon: By now you must be ready for a break and a quick drink. Leave the Ancient Agora onto Adrianou Street, near the Stoa of Attalos. You're now in Monastiraki, near Athens's most colorful market. The street is lined with tavernas, any one of which can supply you with a quick refreshment.
12:30 p.m.: Make your way to Avissinias Square. It's the center of Monastiraki's antiques market. You'll find it between Ermou and Adrianou Streets, between the intersections of Agiou Filippou and Platia Avissinias. There's excellent browsing for traditional furniture and European bric-a-brac. It's also the location of a great place for lunch — Café Avissinias. It's a bistro with a bohemian vibe, furnished with antiques, mismatched tiles, dark wood. The food is Greek, specializing in mezes with Asian and Balkan influences. It's tiny and popular so book ahead.
2 p.m.: Shop 'til you drop or browse to your heart's content in the seemingly endless warren of interconnecting lanes and paths that make up Monastiraki Market, the Athens flea market. Here you can buy, clothes, food, sweets and baked goods, beads and jewelry, antiques, furniture, ceramics, souvenirs, musical instruments, handmade sandals, textiles, candles, soaps — pretty much everything imaginable. The market's shops, stalls and stands are sheltered beneath awnings that reach across the narrow lanes, almost touching in the middle. Their goods pour out onto the streets. Tourists and Athenians mingle equally here and you never know what you will find. Even if you hate shopping, the people watching and photo opportunities are superb.
5 p.m.: Now, do as the Greeks do, and get ready for a late night with an afternoon/early evening siesta.
7:30 p.m.: The evening starts with drinks and mezethes to stave off hunger pangs while you watch the sunset from a rooftop bar. You could choose traditional Greek drinks such as sweet, resin flavored mastika; ouzo, flavored with anise; or tsipouro, a strong brandy. But why not save the strong drinks for later. Cocktails have recently become fashionable in Athens, and there are some great rooftop bars where the views of the city at night are splendid. Drinks at the GB Roof Garden Bar, on the 8th floor of the swish Hotel Grande Bretagne in Syntagma Square, may be on the pricey side, but to see the Acropolis light up as the sun sinks behind it is worth paying a little more for a drink. From the Galaxy Bar on the 13th floor of the Athens Hilton, you can enjoy a view that takes in Lycabettus Hill and the Acropolis and stretches all the way to the port of Piraeus.
9 p.m.: Gazi is Athens's hip new arts and nightlife district. It was once Athens's gasworks complete with industrial storage tanks, gasholder, pipeworks, lights and towers. And it was the only gasworks in Europe undamaged by Nazi bombs; they had a soft spot for the Parthenon, less than a kilometer away, and wanted to spare it.
It was abandoned as a gasworks in the 1980s. Regeneration began in the 1990s with the creation of Technopolis City of Athens. It's a multi-purpose, design, art and music venue, and museum that, with its abandoned gasholder and massive, red floodlit chimneys, is a focal point of the neighborhood.
Today, Gazi is a buzzing hive of restaurants, bars, dance and live music clubs that come to life when the sun goes down and heaves with people — Athenians, tourists, old and young (though it's not particularly family friendly). Try the streets around the main square and Kerameiko Metro Station  — Iakou, Persefonis, Dekeleon, Triptolemou and Voutadon — for the best cafés and bars. The Butcher & Sardelles is actually a pair of popular restaurants, side by side and owned by the same team. One is renowned for its grilled meats, the other for fish. You can try to book, but your best bet is to get there before the main dinner crowd arrives at 10 pm. After dinner, keep the night going at the arty music café, Hoxton, with live music at Gazarte, or with a techno rave vibe at PIXI.
If a Wild Night Out is Not Your Scene... go for a dinner surrounded by the best view in Athens instead. Orizontes Lycabettus is at the top of the rocky outcrop called Lycabettus Hill. (only the church is higher). You reach it by funicular cable car. The menu is modern Greek, leaning heavily, but not exclusively, toward seafood. But the real knockout draw of this place is the view of all of Athens spreading out below it. Booking is essential, and be sure to ask for a table near the edge of the terrace.
10:30 a.m.: Athens is so full of amazing antiquities, it's easy to overlook the National Archaeological Museum about 10 minutes from the Viktoria Metro Station. Don't. This is one of the great museums of the world, with collections and objects from everywhere in Greece. If you've been to Crete, Santorini or other Greek islands with archaeological sites, you've probably seen little signs telling you the originals of this or that are at the archaeology museum in Athens. This is the place. The collection of 11,000 items includes some of the most important and famous finds from the ancient world including:
There are also, vases and small metalwork objects as well as objects from Egyptian and Cypriot antiquities.
11:30 a.m.: Spend some time browsing the Museum Shop. It's stuffed with high-quality reproductions, artwork and sculpture, endorsed by the Greek Ministry of Culture, as well as less expensive books, prints, postcards, and small gift items. You can treat yourself with the money you've saved by not buying tacky souvenirs in Plaka.
12 noon:  There are two garden cafes in the archaeology museum, one in an internal courtyard, the other in an outdoor garden. Both are of the basic sandwiches, cakes and drinks variety. Still, sitting in the shade of palms and fig trees, while statues peer out from under the greenery is very pleasant. Have a glass of wine here before heading in search of lunch. This is not a particularly inspiring neighborhood for food. Your best bet is to get back on the Metro at Omonia for the 4 minute trip on the Red Line (M2) to Acropolis Station.
1 p.m.: The Acropolis Museum has a highly regarded, indoor and open-air restaurant on the second floor where you can get a last lingering look at the Parthenon. Access through the museum for restaurant-goers requires a free ticket from the admissions desk.
Planning the Greece trip of a lifetime? Pre-purchasing your tours of Athens, Greece can save you big money by avoiding the fluctuating Euro exchange rates. Only thing is, there are so many different tours that it's hard to know which kind is best for your buck. Below, you'll find a wide selection of the different types of tours worth your while. Specific tours are available throughout Greece through many travel agencies, hotels, and tour operators. 
Taking a tour at the beginning of your stay in Athens helps orient you to the capital city of Greece. This type of tour gets you to and from many of the major sights easily in a short amount of time; some you may want to revisit on your own later in your stay.
Cape Sounion is a dramatic location at any time of day, but most of the afternoon tours schedule it so you'll be there for the amazing sunset. Beneath you the Aegean Sea stretches out, glimmering in the sun, and beside you stands the stately ruins of the Temple of Poseidon. It's easy to understand why the ancient Greeks built a temple to the god of the sea here.
Are you a cliché phobic, or an independent traveler rather than a tourist? Then this one isn't for you. You get to see the lights of Athens, look at the picturesque harbors, and then go into the Plaka area of Athens for a dinner and show. However, it's mindless fun, less trouble for a tired tourist than finding a unique place on your own, and nearly an essential experience for a first-time visitor to Greece.
Organized trips to Meteora make great sense -- it's a long drive into the mountains that most casual travelers won't undertake on their own. Even better, find one that includes a stop at Delphi as well (read on for more info on this historical must-see site).
To many Greece travel experts, a visit to Delphi is as essential as a visit to Athens. This beautiful, historic, and inspiring town on the slopes of Mount Parnassus is a great experience. Have extra time? You can turn it into an overnight trip and, with an early call, you can explore the site without the crowds early the next morning.
If you have the time, this is the most recommended way to experience Delphi -- it's absolutely lovely and you won't regret spending a night there. Delphi is high on the list for a return visit by repeat travelers to Greece, and it is lovely almost any season of the year.
The actual Corinth Canal isn't even the most impressive portion of this tour. The ruins of ancient Corinth are very evocative, both as an ancient Greek site and also as a site important to early Christianity; the "Bema" or meeting area where Paul preached can still be visited.
This is a fun way to "do" Athens while enjoying some instruction in photography and capturing some memorable images. Participants should be able to comfortably walk while carrying their camera equipment uphill and through the narrow and sometimes steep lanes of Athens. But if you're just really looking for a walking tour, this is a pricey way to do it and best for more serious photographers.
Combining Greek wine tasting and a visit to ancient ruins just "works" somehow -- while there aren't many opportunities for this type of tour, you can do a wine tasting not at Corinth itself, but nearby at a lovely winery.
Explore the island of the sun, sacred to Helios since ancient times. This four-day trip typically includes your flight from Athens and a half-day escorted tour, but much of the time is yours to do with as you wish.
Want to get out of Athens, but short on time? Try an 11-hour day cruise -- it lets you visit three great Greek islands in a single day. Yes, it's just a taste, but if all you have time for is appetizers, you'll still appreciate -- and remember -- your quick bites of these Greek isles, all of them gems. Though it's a busy day, the boat ride between the islands lets you recover from previous sightseeing and be raring to go once you dock.
Love Athens but want to experience a Greek island during your stay? A quick trip to and from Santorini may be just the ticket. It can combine easily with your stay in Athens. Remember, most Athens hotels will happily keep your big luggage for you for a few days while you run off to the islands.
Want to get out of Athens in a big way? A four-day/three-night tour of classical Greece that includes the Byzantine monasteries of Meteora, in addition to Mycenae, Epidaurus, Olympia, Corinth, and Delphi is the way to go.
This is an easy way to visit the often-neglected area of Northern Greece, round-trip from Athens. While Delphi is not exactly "northern", it's a nice addition to this type of tour.
The National Archaeological Museum is really a must-see in Athens -- yet it seemed to be dropping off of organized tour offerings in recent past years, leaving travelers to scramble to add it to their own free days in Athens. An ideal tour would combine access to the Museum with a personally-guided tour on foot through Athens.
A bus tour is a simple, easy way to learn the basics of Athens and take some photographs from an interesting angle.
Athens, Greece is a marvelous city, a world capital -- and a confusing labyrinth for the unwary. If you choose a safe hop-on, hop-off bus tour or another guided coach option, it's still possible to "do" Athens without ever really meeting an actual Greek national or exchanging more than a few words with someone over a shop counter or hotel reception desk.
A service called Welcome has bridged that gap by creating a directory of vetted and trustworthy local Athenians and others who live in Greece who are willing to guide tourists around to their personal favorites in Athens and beyond. They charge a fee for the excursions, usually over 100 Euros for several hours of transportation and guidance. Some of them will even cook you dinner at their home, introduce you to their circle of friends, and show you around the neighborhoods of Athens.

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Best Overall: InnAthens — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"The sleek monochrome palette is timelessly stylish and the rooms are uniquely decorated."
Best Budget: Victory Inn — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Breakfast is very reasonably priced and substantial enough to save you from having to waste money on mid-morning snacks."
Best Boutique: O&B Athens Boutique Hotel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Expect a minimalist haven for fashionable travelers with lighting, music and modern art."
Best for Families: AVA Hotel & Suites — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Save money by self-catering, then eat at the dining table or on your private balcony."
Best for Romance: Electra Palace Athens — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Breathtaking panoramas can be admired from the rooftop pool, while the spa offers couples’ massages."
Best Luxury: King George, A Luxury Collection Hotel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Even the most basic rooms boast marble bathtubs, luxury Papoutsanis toiletries and a window seat overlooking the atrium."
Best for Nightlife: A for Athens — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Expect specialty cocktails, beautiful people and jaw-dropping views of the illuminated Acropolis."
Best Business: Hilton Athens — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Enjoy complimentary breakfast and snacks throughout the day, as well as chic spaces for meeting with colleagues."
Best Oceanfront: Athens Poseidon Hotel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Overlooks the blue waters of the Argo-Saronic Gulf."
Courtesy of InnAthens
InnAthens is a four-minute walk from Syntagma Square in Athens’ city center. It’s also a few steps from the National Garden and its famous archaeological sites. A small property with just 20 rooms, this contemporary hotel doesn’t have a long list of amenities. However, the location is perfect and the service is flawless. The sleek monochrome palette is timelessly stylish and the rooms are uniquely decorated with bespoke furniture and elements of Greek marble and steel.
Whether you choose a room or suite, you’re guaranteed a good night’s sleep, thanks to blackout curtains and excellent soundproofing. Coco-mat bedding, luxury toiletries, free Wi-Fi and a 32” HD TV add to the sense of having found your own personal sanctuary. The heart of the hotel is its atrium, a beautiful open space centered around a lemon tree and filled with plants and quiet places to sit and enjoy a moment’s peace. There’s a restaurant and a bar, as well as plenty of eclectic dining and drinking options nearby.
 Courtesy of Victory Inn
Victory Inn is located near Athens’ world-famous National Archaeological Museum in a quiet neighborhood just north of the city center. With spotlessly clean interiors and a staff renowned for their helpfulness, this is your best choice for quality accommodations that won’t break the bank. Opt for a single, double or triple room, all with en-suite bathrooms and air-conditioning. Satellite TV, a telephone and an in-room fridge come as standard, while higher-level rooms have private balconies.
The hotel does not have a restaurant, but room service is available throughout the day. In particular, breakfast is very reasonably priced and substantial enough to save you from having to waste money on mid-morning snacks. When you want to eat out, ask the 24-hour reception for recommendations regarding nearby restaurants. There’s a bar and private parking within 200 meters of the hotel. Alternatively, Victoria metro station is an easy 10-minute walk away.
 Courtesy of O&B Athens Boutique Hotel
Four-star O&B Athens Boutique Hotel is surrounded by the trendy cafés, restaurants and bars of the capital’s vibrant Psirri neighborhood. It is also a short walk from ancient landmarks such as the Temple of Hephaestus and the Agora of Athens. Expect a minimalist haven for fashionable travelers with lighting, music and modern art all carefully employed to create an atmosphere of impeccable style. There are 22 rooms and suites, all with Egyptian cotton sheets, marble bathrooms and free Wi-Fi.
Upgrade to a suite and find yourself enchanted by a private terrace with breathtaking views of the Acropolis. Breakfast is included in your room rate and features Greek specialties (think local cheeses, olives, pastries and honey). O&B Athens All Day Bar Restaurant also serves Greek cuisine and cocktails in a sophisticated setting. Other benefits include a 24-hour concierge, in-room massages and room service available around the clock. 
Courtesy of AVA Hotel Athens
In between the Arch of Hadrian and the foot of the Acropolis hill, four-star AVA Hotel & Suites is the ideal choice for parents hoping to introduce their children to the wonder of the ancient world. Recently renovated suites offer independence and space in equal measure. Capable of accommodating up to four people, each one has a full kitchenette. Save money by self-catering, then eat at the dining table or on your private balcony.
In between adventures, a Smart TV with a DVD player and movie library help to keep your kids entertained. There’s free Wi-Fi for downloading their favorite shows, while the hotel snack bar comes in handy when you don’t feel like cooking. Babysitting facilities are available upon request. Other useful amenities include a 24-hour front desk and a laundry service (a blessing for those with messy toddlers). 
Courtesy of Electra Palace Athens
Surrounded by Syntagma Square, the National Garden and the Acropolis, Electra Palace Athens is a romantic retreat in the heart of the city. Its white neo-classical façade and cool marble interior evoke the grace of a long-gone era - although the rooms boast the latest modern comforts. Choose a suite with wooden floors and hand-woven carpets, timeless Acropolis views and a Jacuzzi bathtub for intimate evenings in.
The hotel has a choice of restaurants and bars, but the most romantic is the Electra Roof Garden. Toast an anniversary with fine Mediterranean fusion cuisine, complemented by live music and unforgettable views of the illuminated Parthenon. The same breathtaking panoramas can be admired from the rooftop pool, while the spa offers couples’ massages. Other amenities include a fitness center and free Wi-Fi. 
Courtesy of King George
Dating back to 1930, King George Hotel presides over the northern boundary of Syntagma Square. Imagine shimmering chandeliers, period furniture and marble floors offset by slender columns and you’ll have a good idea of what to expect from this endlessly elegant five-star hotel. Even the most basic rooms boast marble bathtubs, luxury Papoutsanis toiletries and a window seat overlooking the atrium.
Splurge on a stay in the Penthouse Suite for 350 square meters of space and a private veranda with an outdoor pool and iconic Acropolis panoramas. Tudor Hall Restaurant offers equally unforgettable terrace views in addition to mouthwatering seasonal Greek cuisine. There’s a fitness studio and a top-of-the-line perfumery, while the list of hotel services includes gourmet in-room dining and private limousine transfers.
 Courtesy of A for Athens
The boutique A for Athens puts you at the heart of Psirri’s famous nightlife scene. A relative newcomer, the hotel is modern, simple and designed with partygoers in mind. It’s not quiet, but if you’re planning on late nights, the chances are you won’t mind. The hotel’s rooftop bar is a hugely popular gathering place for Athenians and visitors alike. Expect specialty cocktails, beautiful people and jaw-dropping views of the illuminated Acropolis. Contemporary en-suite rooms are divided into two categories - those with Acropolis views and those without. Both include a satellite TV, a minibar and a comfy bed. Enjoy a pre-party dinner at the rooftop restaurant, then refuel at the complimentary breakfast buffet the following day. 
Courtesy of Hilton Athens
Hilton Athens is a seven-minute walk from the Mergaron Athens International Conference Centre and enjoys direct metro links to Athens International Airport. There are 22 naturally lit meeting rooms on-site, while corporate facilities include high-speed Internet, a business center and secretarial services. Choose an Executive Room with an ergonomic work desk and free access to the Executive Lounge. Here, you can enjoy complimentary breakfast and snacks throughout the day, as well as chic spaces for meeting with colleagues. There’s a full spa, an outdoor pool and a choice of restaurants, including the rooftop Galaxy Restaurant & Bar with its mesmerizing Acropolis views.
Courtesy of Athens Poseidon Hotel
Located a 20-minute drive from the city center in the coastal suburb of Palaio Faliro, Athens Poseidon Hotel overlooks the blue waters of the Argo-Saronic Gulf. You’re a few steps from the beach and the rooms and suites reflect sea and sand-inspired color schemes. All rooms include free Wi-Fi, a TV, a minibar and a private balcony, but it’s worth paying extra for ocean views. At the complimentary breakfast buffet, savor authentic local produce. The hotel has several excellent restaurants, and in summer, rooftop Skybar 360° is the ultimate spot for magical sunsets and cocktails by the pool.
Think of Athens, and the first thing that comes to mind for most visitors is the Acropolis topped by the Parthenon. The icon is hard to escape as you can see it from almost everywhere in the city, but Athens is actually a collection of colorful, lively neighborhoods to explore. Here are the best to look for on your next trip.
Plaka, below the eastern slopes of the Acropolis Hill, is the heart of old Athens. There's no escaping the fact that this is a very touristy district, packed with souvenir shops and lots of mediocre tavernas. But it is also a delightful place to walk around, to wander through the narrow lanes and admire the pastel-colored houses. Adrianou Street, which basically separates Plaka from another district, Monastiraki, has the best shops. Take some time to find the neighborhood within a neighborhood, Anafiotika. It was built in the 19th century by settlers from the island of Anafi. They came to Athens for work and created their Cycladic island, complete with boxy, whitewashed houses, lining streets that are really winding staircases, on the slopes of the Acropolis. ​
Where to Eat: Psaras claims to be Plaka's oldest restaurant. It has a huge menu, of traditional classics and fish, and a picturesque setting on steps leading up to Anafiotika.
Nearest Metro: Acropoli on the Red Line
Kolonaki is where well-heeled Athenians live, shop and dine. Since Greece's economic troubles and disagreements with the EU several years ago, a few shops have closed and perhaps a few bistros have disappeared, but all the major global designer names plus exclusive Greek jewelers and designers are present here. Art galleries, shoe shops, and boutiques are scattered across the side streets. Head for Skoufa for Gucci and Louis Vuitton but also koukoutsi, a shop that sells hip, originally designed T-shirts and backpacks for men. Also good for shopping and window shopping: Solonos, Likavittou, Pindarou, Ippokratous and Tsakalof streets. Earn that shopping trip and all the frappés you;ll drink in Kolonaki's sidewalk cafés with a bracing morning walk up Lycabettus Hill (Kolonaki spreads across its lower slopes).
Where to Eat: This district is full of French, Italian and Japanese restaurants. But one of the best neighborhood locals is Kalamaki Kolonaki, at 32 Ploutarchou. Their souvlaki is legendary.
Nearest Metro: Evangelismos on the Blue Line
Syntagma Square is the political and ceremonial heart of modern Athens. It is dominated by the lemon-yellow Greek Parliament building, a royal palace until the mid 19th century. The Evzones, an elite military unit who serve as the Presidential Guard, perform a "changing of the guard" ceremony at the Monument to the Unknown Soldier, in front of the parliament. Their high stepping choreography, coupled with their uniform of white skirts, white leggings, red berets and shoes with pompoms, is one of the main reasons tourists gather in Syntagma Square. Another reason is that it usually the place they first fetch up in the city when they arrive from either the port at Piraeus or the Airport — Syntagma is the central stop on the Metro Lines and the buses serving both. The square is surrounded by banks, hotels and most of the travel agencies in Athens (where you can pick up ferry tickets to the islands). It also has the most popular taxi stand in Athens. 
Where to Drink: This is not a great area for dining out, though there are several cafes and bistros facing the square. Instead, stop for a drink and enjoy the view of the Acropolis at the GB Roof Garden Bar in the Hotel Grande Bretagne.
Nearest Metro: Syntagma on the Blue and Red Lines
Monastiraki is yet another central Athens district with a completely different vibe than its neighbors. The heart of it is its market — a flea market that operates every day where you can buy almost anything — clothes, jewelry, pottery, artwork, sweets, baked goods, electronics, antiques. Its narrow lanes are a constant blur of tourists and Athenians.
On the northwest corner of Monastiraki is Psyrri, a trendy residential and entertainment neighborhood that is popular with young Athenians. Until the 1990s, Psyrri had been an area of run down and derelict houses. But as with many cities, artists, musicians, and anti-establishment types were, followed by trendy cafes, bars, and shops. Today, the rough edges have been rubbed smooth and Psyrri is pretty well gentrified. But it is still a youthful quarter with a lively nightlife scene that includes live music venues.
Where to Eat: Go for something completely different at Gostijo, a kosher restaurant that specializes in Sephardic cuisine, the Jewish culture of Spain, the Middle East and the Mediterranean.
Nearest Metro: Monastiraki on the Green or the Blue Lines
Gazi is Athens's post-millennial design, art, and techno district during the day and its blazing nightlife district well into the night. The area, centered on Technopolis, a multi-purpose arts and entertainment center in a former gasworks, is full of restaurants, bars, and dance clubs. The streets buzz with revelers well into the wee hours. The name ​Kerameikos, is often used interchangeably with the newer name, Gazi, which is actually in the Kerameikos district. Today Kerameikos refers to the Metro station and to an ancient Greek and Roman cemetery used until the 6th century AD and rediscovered in the 19th century. It's a peaceful place to walk and there's a small museum. Interestingly, both names come from this neighborhood's very ancient connection to industry. Kerameikos was originally named for the potters who settled here 3,000 years ago. Gazi is named for its gasworks, abandoned in the 1970s and now a repurposed, vaguely dystopian setting for fun.
Where to Eat: In the midst of the noisy, crowded bistros and the proliferation of franchise restaurants of Gazi, Kanella is a less hyper, yet modern, taverna offering the kinds of traditional Greek specialties that will soak up lots of alcohol. The style is very much home cooking. Or, to totally blow your budget, go for extravagantly modern, 2-Michelin-starred cuisine at the Funky Gourmet.
Nearest Metro: Kerameikos on the Blue Line
This is a lovely residential district that begins at the northwest corner of the Ancient Agora and continues along the west side of the agora. It's popular home territory for Athens's affluent thirty-something set and its streets are lined with well-maintained apartment blocks and large, pastel-colored villas. One of the best things about Thissio for visitors is the long, wide pedestrian street — Apostolu Pavlou — that borders the agora and then joins Dionysiou Aeropagitou, also pedestrianized, along the south side of the Acropolis. From April to October, there's a magical open-air cinema beneath the illuminated Parthenon, showing first-run movies, on Apostolu Pavlou. Thissio is one of the greener areas of central Athens with its tree-lined streets and tree-shaded cafes.​
Where to Eat: Meat-eaters who find To Steki Tou Ilia, a very local place on 7 Thessalonikis (+30 21 0342 2407), are well rewarded. It has a reputation for some of the best grilled meat in Athens — steaks, lamb, pork, all barbecued over an open-air charcoal grill. 
Nearest Metro: Thissio on the Green Line
Exarcheia used to be a magnet for writers, poets, artists, and musicians. But unlike other areas where bohemianism ultimately results in gentrification, Exarcheia has remained a gritty and authentic district. It's covered in graffiti, ringing with political dissent and popular with students of an anarchist bent. It's the unconventional center of alternative culture and intellectual argument. It is also the location of what is arguably Greece's finest museum, the National Archaeological Museum. This is an area to look for restaurants and underground bars with live music, ranging from traditional Greek bazouki music or its urban equivalent, rebetika, to whatever sort of music is trendy at the moment. 
Where to Eat: Rozalia is a family friendly taverna with a huge menu on a narrow pedestrian street — Valtetsiou. The locals have softened the gritty urban street with lots of plants and trees in pots. Inside Rozalia looks a bit like a rustic greenhouse. 
Nearest Metro: Omonia on the Green and Red Lines or Panepistimio on the Red Line
Athens's neighborhoods tend to overlap as newer names and fashions attach to older districts and new urban tribes take up the areas. That's the case of Makrigianni, which was once simply known as Akropoli. It's the area around the New Acropolis Museum. It stretches roughly from the start of the pedestrian street Dionysiou Areopagitou (at a small square with a statue of Greek revolutionary hero, Makrygiannis) along the pedestrian area and past the Herodian Theater, under the Acropolis. Once you reach the intersection of Apostolou Pavou (also pedestrian) you are in Thissio. Makrygianni is where tourists arrive for the climb up to the Acropolis and where Athenians go for Sunday strolls on the pine shaded slopes and tree-shaded streets. It's also where you can look at the most fabulous 20th-century goldsmiths' work at the Ilias Lalaounis Museum.
As you walk southwest through this district, it merges with the relatively quiet residential and university area known as Koukakis. Enter the park known as Philopappou Hill and climb the gentle hill for wonderful views of Athens. 
Where to Eat: Mani Mani on Falirou Street specializes in the cuisine of the Mani region of the Peloponnese.
Nearest Metro: Akropoli or Sygrou-Fix on the Red Line
Not every district in Athens is one you'll want to visit and how you feel about Omonia really depends upon how urban you are. Omonia is modern Athens oldest public square and was once a showpiece of the city. But it has not been a showpiece for decades. It is a traffic-clogged, crowded, confusing and seedy place. If that really bothers you, skip Omonia. But some of Athens's cheapest hotels are in this area and so, before you book one, it's a good idea to know what you are getting into.
With that said, i t's not an absolute horror show. If you've been an innocent out-of-towner in New York or Chicago, you can manage Omonia. And Athens's Central Market is fun to see. Just be sensible.
Where to Eat: Lots of fast-food and not much else around here.
Nearest Metro: Omonia on the Red or Green Lines
Kifissia is Athens's most affluent northern suburb and parts of it may remind you of Palm Beach or Sarasota. It's popular with families — who rent high-end villas like those offered by Villa Politia — and couples looking for quiet, romantic getaways. The center is noted for luxury fashion shopping and romantic, open-air restaurants. And given that it's a little way out of the center, its best hotels — like the 5-star, high concept Semiramis — are relatively reasonably priced. 
While you are there, visit the quirky little Goulandris Natural History Museum or head for the commercial center around Panagitsas Street for shopping and art galleries.
Where to Eat: Elias Gi one of Athens most romantic places. It's in an old stone mansion in the Politia area of Kifissia, with incredible views across Athens from a terrace shaded by giant trees. 
Nearest Metro: Kifissia on the Green Line
Unwilling to pop 40-50 Euro for a taxi into Athens? Consider taking the Athens Airport Bus.
Most of these buses usually run 24 hours a day, though service on some lines can be almost nonexistent between midnight and dawn. They pick up passengers directly in front of the arrivals terminal by Door 3 and 4.
Even when open, the Metro station at the airport is less convenient and requires more dragging of your luggage than the airport buses, and it's twice as expensive.
Your ticket will also include a transfer to any other public transportation in Athens if used within 90 minutes.
This bus runs to and from the airport, ending at Syntagma Square in central Athens. Many hotels are near Syntagma Square, and it is usually easy to catch a taxi. Some hotels, such as the Athens Intercontinental, also offer courtesy shuttles to Syntagma Square, so you may be able to connect with them there directly. The trip into Athens lasts a little over an hour. This bus runs no less than three times an hour.
The X96 runs to Piraeus, a handy way to connect with many ferries to the Greek islands. The trip takes about an hour and a half. It runs at least every half-hour. While most arriving tourists will use find either the X95 or the X96 most useful, there are several additional routes which may suit some travelers' needs.
To and from Kifissia (see X93 below for a similar name but different location) in the northern suburbs of Athens to the airport. Runs every 45-60 minutes from 5 am to 11:45 pm; every 90 to 120 minutes during the wee hours.
Watch the similar name on this one - they sound alike and are easy to mispronounce so the ticket taker thinks you want the wrong one. The X93 runs from Kifisos Station in Athens itself where the intercity buses connect. It runs to and from the Athens Airport, usually on a 40-minute schedule except between midnight and 4:15 am when it runs about every 60-70 minutes.
From Dafni Metro Station to and from the Airport. Every 40-60 minutes from about 6 am to 10 pm, then up to 90 minutes between buses.
Any recent changes are posted at the official Airport Bus Lines page as well as a diagram of where the buses are at the airport.
Buses not for you? Consider directly booking pre-arranged airport transfers. For small groups, this is basically a private taxi and for two or more, if it is priced per person rather than per car, it can more expensive than just getting a taxi at the airport. But it can be worth it if you want to be met and not have to worry about negotiating prices. They may also operate during strikes when regular taxis will not be available.
Athens, the capital of Greece, was the heart of ancient Greek civilization, and people from around the world still come here to visit early Greek landmarks such as the Acropolis and the Parthenon. Meanwhile, the Acropolis Museum and the National Archaeological Museum preserve sculptures, vases, jewelry, and more from Ancient Greece, offering guests a chance to step back in time.
However, these ancient structures and museums aren't the only must-see attractions in Athens. Diving into the nightlife in the Psiri neighborhood and shopping in the Plaka are favorite pastimes for tourists and residents alike.
NewOpenWorld Foundation 
The Acropolis and the Parthenon dominate the skyline of Athens. These hilltop sights are stunning, and the view from the Acropolis of the city and the surrounding temples is one that will stay with you forever.
The Acropolis is an ancient citadel located on a rocky hilltop overlooking Athens; it's also the site of a number of ancient buildings like the Parthenon, which is one of the most significant symbols of early western civilization that have made it to modern times. Constructed between 447 and 438 B.C. and co-designed by Ictinus and Callicrates, the Parthenon was dedicated to the goddess Athena at the height of the Athenian Empire.
At the Acropolis, join a ​tour group organized by language—though there may be a short wait while a full group is gathered. These tours are led by licensed guides and take guests through the structures still standing in the Acropolis.
The New Acropolis Museum nearby is also an attraction worth seeing; discounted tickets are available for access to both. Alternatively, book an organized tour ahead of time, which will generally include transportation from your hotel.
Hiroshi Higuchi/Getty Images
With artifacts dating back to 6,000 B.C. and covering everything from prehistory to Greek antiquity, The National Archaeological Museum in Athens is considered one of the greatest museums in the world. While even a brief stop at the museum will impress, first-time visitors should allow at least two to three hours for a full tour of the exhibits and artifacts.
However, you could easily spend an entire day learning about the history of the region here, since the museum covers millennia of Greek culture—starting with the Cycladic Island civilization, the Minoans, and the Mycenaeans and continuing through the Greco-Roman world.
Jane Sweeney/Getty Images
A great afternoon trip from Athens, Cape Sounion is one of those destinations that is as much a favorite with locals as it is with tourists, mainly for the breathtaking views you'll find here. A highlight of the cape is the Temple of Poseidon, a 5th Century temple with Doric columns that's become a favorite sunset-viewing spot for visitors.
While it is possible to visit Sounion by public bus from Athens, most visitors prefer to drive or to take an organized tour. You can book one directly ahead of your trip through your hotel or by visiting a travel agency in Athens.
Andrew Holt/Getty Images
To enjoy the seaside atmosphere of Athens, slip away to Piraeus, easily reachable by the Metro, and have dinner at one of the pricey but charming seaside taverns of Microlimano.
Piraeus, the port city of Athens, is not quite a Greek island but is reminiscent of the Greek island vibe. Allow yourself some extra time and stop by the excellent Piraeus Archaeological Museum or the equally-fascinating Nautical Museum.
You can also take an open-topped bus tour between Athens and Piraeus, making it an easy and interesting way to get back and forth between the two cities.
 Taylor McIntyre / TripSavvy
For an escape from the heat of Athens in summer, the wooded top of Lycabettus Hill provides plenty of breeze and shade as well as a few great attractions including the 19th century Chapel of St. George, a theatre, and a restaurant.
Visitors can access Lycabettus Hill via a three-minute cable car ride or by taking a circular hiking trail up the 277 meters to the top. While the cable car ride is quick, you won't get a view of the city on the way up or down, but while the hiking trail may be more scenic, it can be a grueling climb in the heat of the summer in the city.
CEZARY ZAREBSKI PHOTOGRPAHY/Getty Images
Also known as "Constitution Square," Syntagma Square is the heart of Athens in many ways. Not only is it a large public square that often hosts holiday events, but it's also the location of several of Athens' most renowned luxury hotels and is an intense public transportation hub.
Additionally, Syntagma Square has the Parliament Building along one side, and the daily "Changing of the Guard" here provides a colorful photo opportunity on your trip—as well as a chance to experience an active part of the current government of Greece.
Once you're done touring the sites on the square, head down pedestrian-only Ermou Street for access to some of Athens' better upscale shopping.
Ken Welsh/Getty Images
The Plaka is the area of winding streets around the Acropolis. It's renowned for its small shops, restaurants, and local architecture. While it's touristy, you'll still find the area charming for its selection of Athenian crafts, Greecian food, and local art.
Stop somewhere for a frappe (iced instant coffee), especially during the summer, and watch passersby. It's also nice to visit at night with the tavernas staying open until late, and Cine Paris often shows classic movies outdoors. The whitewashed homes of the adjacent Anafiotika neighborhood give the area a Greek-island feel.
Doug Pearson/Getty Images
With many tourist shops open until 10 p.m. and a number of nightclubs, tavernas, and bars open until dawn across the city, the nightlife culture of Athens is thriving—even for tourists.
While Plaka may be popular for shopping, eating a casual dinner, or having an early drink, consider heading to Psiri for parties that go all night, dance clubs featuring international DJs, and bars that serve until dawn.
Daniel Frauchiger/Getty Images
The Ancient Agora of Classical Athens is the best-known example of an ancient Greek agora (marketplace) in the country. You'll find it northwest of the Acropolis, bounded on the south by the hill of the Areopagus and on the west by the hill of Agoraios Kolonos.
This spot offers plenty of things to see and explore—all of which can be seen in a few hours. Visit the temple of Hephaestus—a rebuilt colonnade that houses the Agora Museum—and check out a number of small monuments throughout the Agora itself. A multiple-site combo ticket makes it a particularly good bargain to combine a visit here with the Acropolis and other nearby sites.
Sjaak Kempe/Flickr/CC BY-2.0
 
Located in the heart of the city between the Kolonaki and Pangrati neighborhoods near the Plaka and the Acropolis, the National Garden is a public park that's home to 15.5 hectares of landscaped gardens and trails that are open from sunrise to sunset.
The National Garden is also home to a number of ancient ruins and mosaics as well as a duck pond, a Botanical Museum, a cafe, a playground, and a children's library.
The Theatre of Dionysus is located at the foot of the Acropolis and is considered the oldest theater in the world. Poets and playwrights like Aeschylus, Aristophanes, Euripides, and Sophocles premiered their works on this stage in the 5th century B.C., and the first drama was presented here by Thespis in about 530 B.C.
Whether you're a fan of modern theater or not, the views and historical significance of this site makes adding it to your itinerary worth it—especially if you're already visiting the Acropolis nearby.
Carol Roddato/Flickr/CC BY-SA 3.0 
Dedicated to Gaius Julius Antiochus Epiphanes Philopappos, a prince from the Kingdom of Commagene in the 1st and 2nd centuries, the Philopappos Monument is an ancient Greek mausoleum located southwest of the Acropolis on Mouseion Hill. 
Easily accessible via a walking trail and staircase through lush greenery, the Philopappos Monument is open to all—day or night—but is best around sunset for spectacular views of the southern part of the city.
 DeAgostini/S.Vannini/Getty Images
Located on the southwest slope of the Acropolis, the Odeon of Herodes Atticus is a stone theatre structure originally completed in 161 A.D. and reconstructed in 1950 that still hosts concerts to this day. While free tours of the site are available throughout the daytime, nighttime concerts require tickets to attend.
The Benaki Museum is a three-floor art and history museum dedicated to Greek culture throughout the ages. Founded by art collector Antonis Benakis in 1930, the museum traces Greek history from prehistoric times to the present.
Exhibits in the museum include Neolithic vases, Archaic ceramics, Classical sculpture, Byzantine and Ottoman artifacts, and a variety of paintings, documents, and weapons from the Greek War of Independence from 1821 to 1829.
dronepicr/Flickr/CC BY-2.0 
Built for the 1896 Olympics, the Panathenaic Stadium is an almost-exact replica of the stadium built for the Panathenaic Games in 330 B.C. and served as the site of several games for the 2004 Summer Olympics. Built to hold 45,000 spectators and tall enough to see the National Garden and Acropolis from its highest seats, the Panathenaic Stadium makes a great stop on your tour of Athens.
The Church of Panaghia Kapnikarea is one of the oldest churches in Athens, originally constructed in 1050, dedicated to the Greek Orthodox faith. Located on Ermou Street at the edge of the Plaka, this small church offers a reprieve from the busy shopping district outside its walls. However, the interior is only open for viewings on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m.
 Wikimedia Commons/CC BY-SA 4.0
Located on Vassilissis Sofias Avenue, this unique museum is home to over 25,000 artifacts from the 3rd Century A.D. to the Late Middle Ages. Founded in 1914, the Byzantine and Christian Museum houses pictures, scriptures, frescoes, pottery, fabrics, manuscripts, and copies of artifacts from the height of the Byzantine and Christian Empires in Greece.
Although not much of this structure remains standing, the 15 surviving columns of the Temple of Olympian Zeus have scrolls and acanthus patterns that harken back to the temple's original significance. 
Construction on the temple started in the 6th century B.C. but wasn't completed until the 2nd century A.D. under the rule of Emperor Hadrian. However, it fell less than a century later in 267 when the Herulian invasion sacked the city and the stone from many of the 104 original columns was quarried to rebuild other structures around Athens.
The Athens International Airport at Spata is the gateway airport for most of Greece. If you're flying to or around Greece, chances are you will be going through Athens airport at one point or another. Athens International Airport is often abbreviated as AIA but the actual airport code is ATH. Use ATH if you are searching for flights online into or out of Athens.
If you are arriving at the Athens airport to then spend time in Athens, you know the drill--retrieve your luggage at the baggage claim and then exit to find ground transportation. However, if you are making a connection to somewhere else in Greece, you have to be alert to the signs guiding you to domestic departures. Otherwise, you'll be swept along with the crowd to the street to connect with various transportation options. If you have luggage, you'll need to go to the baggage area, get your bags, and then retrace your steps to get into the right area of the airport for your connecting flight.
If you are traveling from the United States, or any non-EU nation, you may erroneously be directed to "E.U." lines for entry. Most travelers in Greece are from the E.U., so this is a natural mistake, though it may cause some confusion. You want to be sure you enter the "non-EU" line. And if you're from the United States, you are not from a "Schengen" nation, so make sure you avoid that line option as well.
Whether it is the unique symbols used for elevators, having the correct change for a luggage cart, or knowing in advance the airport's restroom situation, being prepared when you land at Athens airport can relieve some of the stress with traveling overseas.
Some travelers have reported being confused by the elevator signs at the Athens International Airport. One symbol (which is not next to the elevator) is an inverted box with an image of a man and a woman, with arrows over their heads. To add to the confusion, this symbol is not repeated in the area actually holding the elevators, and the elevators are not visible from the doors. The symbol at the elevator is showing a piece of luggage on a cart.
If you decide to take the escalator, don't worry that it is out of order--that escalator standing still will start up as you approach; it's somewhat disconcerting, yet energy-saving!
If you have several pieces of luggage, you will probably want to use a luggage cart. But be aware the luggage cart dispenser takes only Euros. If you haven't exchanged a small amount of money ahead of time--which is recommended--there are machines nearby which will convert various currencies into Euros. It's also important to note that the luggage cart won't move unless you press down firmly on the handle.
Also, for a huge, modern airport, toilets are in curiously short supply. If you hate using airplane toilets, this is one time you may want to make an exception before you land as there are very few restrooms where you deplane and at the baggage claim. They are also scarce in the Athens International Airport shopping area and at the gates for departing flights.
If you have a layover between flights or are waiting for your flight to depart, there is plenty to do at the Athens airport. The departure lounge shopping area is beautiful, with a wide variety of Greek goods, newsstands, pharmacies, and specialty food shops, in addition to clothing stores and food-court type restaurants. The sole enclosed sit-down restaurant is located upstairs, next to the McDonald's, and is usually empty. There are often coupon booklets being handed out with a discount coupon for the food court, which will save you a few Euros.
In the shops, keep an eye open for the extensive wine collection, including the ancient Greek retsina. Just remember the bottles will need to be placed in checked luggage.
In the arrivals lounge, the Greek National Tourist Organization booth is also worth a stop to pick up free maps and travel brochures in several languages. The city of Athens operates a similar booth during the high season, staffed with friendly and helpful local Greeks.
Believe it or not, there is actually a museum in the Athens airport. It may not take you long to go through, but is an interesting way to use up some otherwise dead time. There are also some nice museum pieces displayed just outside the airport terminal doors.
If your travel itinerary requires you to find lodging near the airport, there are hotel options in close proximity. The Sofitel Airport Hotel is actually ​at the airport and therefore offers extremely easy access by foot. Requiring a short drive (which is often free shuttle service from the hotel), are the Holiday Inn, Peri's Hotel and Apartments, and Armonia Hotel. 
One problem facing travelers is that hotel facilities in the airport area are limited, and the next closest full-service hotels are about a half an hour away at Vouliagmeni. Savvy travelers are also taking advantage of the hotels at nearby Brauron (Vravrona), a pretty area boasting an excellent temple of Artemis, wineries, and spas.
Stuck with a layover that is too short to warrant a hotel, but too long to go without sleep? You may be in luck--sort of. There are some hidden locations that are ideal for sleeping at the Athens International Airport.
Once you've retrieved your luggage and gone through customs it's time to leave the airport. But what is the best mode of transportation?
The suburban railway directly serves the airport, and Metro Line 3 also goes to and from the airport. It may sound convenient, but be aware that the Metro does not operate from the airport between approximately 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. It can also be challenging if you are traveling with a lot of luggage, as it is difficult to manage on the suburban railway since many stations have lots of steps, and elevators are not always accessible.
Many bags may also be difficult to maneuver on the regular buses, but if you are a light packer you may want to check out the Athens Airport Bus Service. You can also get a limo to or from the airport; for groups of four or more, this may actually save money or simply be worth the comfort.
The Athens International Airport at Spata is also known as the Eleftherios Venizelos Airport. It also is sometimes just called Spata or Spada. The airport code is ATH.
One spot in Greece that you may never have heard of is the Athens Riviera. Cynics may call it nothing more than a slick marketing device, but the Athens Riviera refers to a hotel-laden area on the Saronic Gulf coast outside Athens, heading south along the coast of Attica.
The Athens Riviera is a dramatic stretch of Greek coastline usually considered to be in the Vouliagmeni suburb area, but then most of Greece has a great coast. It's a nice way to get close to the water and stay away from the bustling city of Athens. Glyfada and Faliro are usually thought of as the northern terminus of the "Riviera," with Cape Sounion marking its southernmost point. In between, there are many beaches and places to stay, including the beaches at Voula and Vouliagmeni, known for its spring waters and offering several hotels. The area beneath Cape Sounion—also called Cape Sounio—is a popular yacht marina but also has several upscale hotels on shore.
The Westin Hotel chain is one of the main promoters of the Athens Riviera, and it's not hard to figure out why. They have a handful of hotels there, including the Astir Palace group and a new W Hotel which opened in 2008. Local Greek hotel chain Grecotel offers the Cape Sounio up on the cliffs. The Grand Resort Lagonissi claims to be the only "luxury waterfront resort" on the Athenian Riviera but some of the above hotels would dispute that.
While hotels provide the best option for most travelers wanting to enjoy this beautiful area of the Saronic Gulf coast, there are also some alternative lodgings such as local places offered on Airbnb, small pensions, and room rentals.
Driving yourself in Greece? If you are tired of the congestion in Athens itself,  the coastal route is a beautiful drive and gives maximum flexibility to check out beaches and view spots along the way. Head toward Glyfada on the E75 out of Athens, then follow the coast down to Cape Sounion. This route will take you by Voula and Vouliagmeni, Lagonissa and Saronidi. With careful timing, you can catch the famous sunset from Cape Sounion. For the return route, there is the option to cut over and go back past the Athens International Airport and then on back into Athens itself.
With a little research, you can book your own day trips around Athens and Short Trips Around Greece and the Greek Islands. You can also book your own trips to Santorini and day trips on Santorini. One thing to note: the Greek airport code for Athens International Airport is ATH.
Enjoy a city break in Athens for its ancient sights and Mediterranean gastronomy. Things to see and do in Athens are numerous, yet as the city center is hectic and hot in the summer months, most people spend a short time here then head to the islands for the beauty and quieter pace of life.
But you’ve never experienced the Athens Riviera. A region close enough to the city to be considered a part of it, yet a world away, time spent here proves you don’t need to head to an island to experience island lifestyle. Blue flag beaches, port towns, and ancient sites await you a mere 30 to 40-minute drive or taxi ride away, stretching along the southern coastal road from the large cruise and ferry port of Piraeus to its southernmost point at Cape Sounio. The restaurants, hotels, and nightlife attract a great crowd to rival that of Mykonos, yet it’s also possible to find quieter spots.
The area started to develop after World War II when urban planners, politicians, and businessmen were keen to transform the scenic, yet underdeveloped Saronic Athenian coast. The name came about due to the location of this Athens coastline to the Saronic islands, as locals wanted their own Cote d'Azur a few miles from the city center where locals could come to relax, to forget the impoverished war years.
In the 1950s, many would pack buses to spend the day at the region’s natural beaches and eat in the tavernas before heading back to the city. Then, in the 60s, the first public organized beaches developed in the towns of Vouliagmeni and Glyfada.  More restaurants and nightclubs sprung up, and Athenians, keen on a more permanent weekend escape, started to build second homes. This period of modernization began to attract to the area an international star base such as Frank Sinatra and The Beatles.
This carried on well on through the '90s, as Vouliagmeni developed into a luxury getaway for everyone from politicians like Margaret Thatcher and Michael Gorbachev to movie stars such as Joan Collins and Paul Newman. Finally, it was the 2004 Olympic Games that transformed the beach facilities and nightspots of the Riviera to meet the standards of the demanding clientele—continuing to this day.  
From port towns to blue flag beaches, café lifestyle and Michelin-starred restaurants to ancient monuments; the Riviera has something for everyone.
A gateway to Greece for those arriving by cruise ship and exit point to the islands, many people merely transit Piraeus, the starting point of the Riviera.  With cafés in the swanky Zea Port offering views across the Saronic Gulf and luxury yachts moored, it’s a perfect place to relax and sip your frappe. The hilltop neighborhood of Castella is a great place to wander around the colorful neoclassical buildings, culminating in the smaller port of Microlimano with its selection of quality fish restaurants by the water.  Here you can dine at the Michelin-starred Varoulko, a seafood restaurant.
On the other side of the Riviera peninsular, Lavrio is a much smaller and prettier port town, enticing the visitor with its yachts bobbing by the pedestrianized harbor. Ferry schedules here are limited to Cycladic islands such as Kea and Andros, resulting in less hustle and bustle.  If museums are your thing, go to the small Archeological Museum and the Mineralogical Museum that showcases the area’s once famed mining district. Several mines can be found in the surrounding villages.  
You’ll find several places to stop and take a quick swim. The beach inlet of Limanakia is one such place, along the coast road to Vouliagmeni, where you’ll find small coves and deep blue waters reached by walking down rocky paths.  The second inlet in this area features Lefteris’ Canteen, a rustic place to have a Greek coffee and small snack and a place that attracts young Athenians who come to swim and party. 
Organized beaches, however, are the main attraction of the Riviera, in keeping with its glitzy crowd appeal. 
Akti Vouliagmeni is in Vouliagmeni and for a 5 euro entry fee you’ll find beach and lawn areas, sun loungers, a children’s play area plus tennis, volley and basketball courts—and also free Wi-Fi.  Drinks and small snacks available. During the summer, the beach is open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
The Astir Beach Club is one of the most exclusive organized beaches of the Riviera. Set along 900 feet of coastline, it offers beach beds and cabanas, massage therapists, sports such as paddleboarding and yoga classes, designer Greek shopping boutiques, and attentive food and drink service at your beach bedside. There's also a selection of fine dining restaurants, including the farm-to-table nice ‘n’ easy Seaside Restaurant. Here you’ll also see the ruins of the 6th century B.C. Temple of Apollo.  Its pricy entry fee of 15 to 40 euros (depending on season and day of the week) is justified with all the facilities on offer—plus, it includes a beach towel and bed. The beach is open from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. in the summer, although the nightclub stays open until midnight.
Nine miles from the center of Athens, near Glyfada, you’ll find the well-priced luxurious complex of Asteras Beach, Balux & the House Project. Great for families, this beach has sunbeds and umbrellas, showers, trampolines, a children’s playground, self-service restaurant, three bars, and water sports. The beach is open from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m., while the restaurant closes at 3 a.m. There is a 7 euro entry fee to the beach.
A bit further from central Athens, you’ll find Varkitza, one of the biggest beaches on the Riviera and one that's popular with water sport enthusiasts for water skiing and windsurfing. This organized beach has a 5 euro entry fee midweek and costs 6 euros on the weekend. It's open from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m.
For a completely different swimming experience, try Vouliagmeni Lake, an hour outside of central Athens. It’s a natural spa lake with fresh spring and seawater and a summer temperature of 81 Fahrenheit, at its lowest in winter 64 Fahrenheit, making year-round swimming possible.  It’s full of garru rufa fish—also known as the Dr. Fish that nibble the dead skin from you. The completely natural spa experience costs 12 to 15 euros.
At the southernmost tip of the Riviera at Cape Sounion lies the Temple of Poseidon, built in 444 B.C. atop the headland to honor the sea god. About 40 miles from Athens' city center, people frequent Cape Sounion and the Temple particularly at sunset to witness and applaud it sinking into the Aegean Sea. 
For something completely different, Margi Farm, in the countryside of the Riviera at Kalivia, 13 miles from Vouliagmeni beach, showcases fresh vegetables and herbs, grown to provide produce for their hotel, a true farm-to-table experience.  The farm also has goats and a rescue donkey and is free to visit, but call ahead to arrange. Evening meals for families and groups, weddings, and baptisms are hosted here.
Hotels tend to reflect the area’s luxurious reputation, so expect expense and style.  
The newly restored Astir Palace is now a Four Seasons hotel.  Its location on 75 acres of pine forest and three private beaches and spa is luxury indeed with 200 rooms, 42 suites, and 61 bungalows ranging from $690 per night up to more than $6,000 per night. 
The 88-room Margi offers more affordable luxury with prices starting from $400 to $1,880 per night depending on room or suite, and is located on a small quiet side road in an area of preserved natural beauty. It's a seven-minute walk from Vouliagmeni beach and has an outdoor and indoor pool and spa facilities.
If camping’s your thing, Camping Bacchus—three minutes from a small natural swimming cove—offers tent pitches from $5.50 up to $28 depending on size and facilities.
With magnificent blue flag beaches on offer, naturally, one would assume that summer and early autumn are the best seasons to frequent the Riviera.  And yet with so much else on offer—pretty harbor towns, ancient ruins, and the spa waters of Lake Vouliagmeni—the Riviera is a year-round destination.
From Athens airport, it’s a mere 14 miles—30 minutes by taxi or car, and a similar distance from the city center. Although buses do run from the airport and city center to the main spots, they are few and far between, therefore to reach out of the way places, car hire is advisable.





