Madrid and Barcelona are Spain's premier cities, and you could easily spend a couple of weeks in each, especially if you were to add in day trips.
But few people have so long for their vacation, so you'll have to plan well to get the most into your limited time.
If you want to do your entire itinerary by train, take a look at the rail map of Spain which will give you prices and travel times for your trip.
Obviously, which city you can get a cheap flight to will probably dictate where you start, but, if you have a choice, go to Madrid. The capital takes a little longer to appreciate, so base yourself there and give it a bit more time.
Valencia is not what some people would call an 'essential' stop for your trip to Spain. It is a great weekend break in its own right: as the home of paella, it is a fantastic city to eat in, it has great beaches, and its old town feels a lot smaller than it is. But if you are visiting Madrid and Barcelona on one trip, you are probably a big city kinda person; Valencia will pale in comparison to the other two. On the other hand, if you're trying to break up your Madrid-Barcelona vacation with a smaller stop along the way, the country's third biggest city doesn't really fit that bill.
However, Valencia is worth a visit, particularly for the paella. As part of a Madrid and Barcelona trip, you could spend half a day there or, at most, stay the night and leave after breakfast.
Usually guided tours tend to merely depart from one city and guide you in the other.
If you would like a tour of both cities, consider booking a walking tour in the city where you start.
You can't spend much time in each city with such a short visit, so you'll need to stay in one city and do a day trip to the other.
Morning: Do a Madrid Walking Tour or take the Madrid Hop-On-Hop-Off Sightseeing Bus for an overview of the city.
Lunch Visit El Botin, the oldest continually functioning restaurant in the world and Hemingway's favorite.
Afternoon: Check out Madrid's Golden Triangle of Art Museum. Pick the one that most suits you.
Alternatively, take a half-day tour. You can still fit in a walking tour of Madrid or a visit to one of the big museums.
Evening: Tapas, perhaps? Either by exploring the area just south of Sol or on a Madrid Tapas Tour. Or perhaps see a flamenco show at one of several good flamenco tablaos in Madrid.
Morning: The high-speed AVE train from Madrid to Barcelona means that, yes, you can do a day trip to Barcelona. There are guided tours designed especially for this, but you can do the trip by yourself too.
Afternoon: The Barcelona hop-on-hop-off sightseeing bus will fulfill all of your transport needs for the day. It will take you up to Parc Guell and the Sagrada Familia, as well as into the downtown Gothic Quarter, Ramblas, and El Born areas.
Evening: Return to Madrid.
Though both Madrid and Barcelona warrant more than a day, a suggestion for your third day would be to go on a day trip from the capital, or even a half-day trip, and spend the rest of your day in Madrid.
For the options below, you'll want to stay in Barcelona and flip the itinerary around, visiting Madrid as a day trip, or going through the hassle of checking into hotels in both Madrid and Barcelona.
If you don't want to leave the city but want an experience that is different from the typical hustle of central Barcelona, head up to to Gracia, the village-like district on the other side of the Eixample area. There are also plenty of excellent Day Trips From Barcelona, with two trips that stick out as being particularly worth considering. These are in fact both half-day trips, which means you can spend the other half of the day checking out the city.
A Visit to Montserrat fantastical rock formations and a famous monastery await you after some gorgeous views on the rack railway and cable car. Visit by yourself or on a half-day tour, but we recommend combining it with a stop at the Gaudi Crypt and Colonia Guell.
The Dali Museum in Figueres: Salvador Dali is one of the world's most fun artists in the world, and that is well represented in his Disney-like museum, just a short ride by high-speed rail from Barcelona. Visit by yourself in a half day trip, or combine it with a visit to Girona with this Dali Museum and Girona Guided Tour.
You could also use your extra day to visit Valencia en route between the two larger cities. Either check your luggage at the train station and spend just the day in Valencia, or stay the night and leave in the morning. At the bottom of the page there is more on visiting Valencia.
Four days gives you long enough to split your time evenly between the two cities, meaning you don't need to choose between the options in the 2- and 3-day itineraries—you can do them all! Bear in mind, though, that 4 days is still not really enough time.
Where to Stay: Find a hotel in Madrid close to the train station for the first night, and transfer to Barcelona on the evening of the second night.
For more details on the individual parts of this itinerary, see above.
Day 1: Explore Madrid.
Day 2: Visit Toledo or El Escorial and the Valley of the Fallen in the morning and see more of Madrid in the afternoon. Transfer to Barcelona.
Day 3: Explore Barcelona.
Day 4: Visit the Dali museum in Figueres, or go to Montserrat Montserrat.
Alternatively, take a 4-Day Guided Tour of Barcelona and Valencia from Madrid, but bear in mind that there are no days in Madrid on this tour, so you'll need extra time to explore the capital by yourself.
A 6-day itinerary allows you to conveniently divide your trip into 3 days in each city. If you can only spare 5 days, then drop the extra day from either Madrid or Barcelona.
Most of this suggested itinerary is similar to the 4-day version, with 2 extra days.  This gives you the option of either spending more time in one of the two cities or adding in an extra stop between the two.
Alternatively, day 3 or 6 could be spent in Valencia.
For the days outside of Madrid, consider a 4-Day Guided Tour of Barcelona and Valencia from Madrid.
Suggestions for this day include:
Madrid and Valencia are connected by the high-speed AVE railway. The whole journey takes just over 90 minutes (sometimes a bit longer) and costs around 45€. But consider adding in Cuenca on the way (see below). 
How to Get to Valencia From Barcelona
The train route between Barcelona and Valencia isn't as quick as the Madrid-Valencia route, with journeys taking over three hours, sometimes a lot more.  
Stay the Night or Visit en Route? With 4.5 hours of train travel ahead of you, it might be tempting to stay the night in Valencia. However, it's preferable to travel from Valencia to Barcelona in the evening—say from 6pm until 9pm—and then get a late dinner in Barcelona, rather than waste your morning in transit.
What to Do in Valencia
Paella! The famous rice dish is at its best in Valencia. If you thought paella was a seafood dish, you'll be pleased to know paella valenciana is actually made with meat (while vegetarians will easily find a version for them too).
The old town area has a great small-town feel to it (but you'll get that in spades if you visit Gracia in Barcelona). 
There is also the Ciudad de Artes y Ciencias—a huge modern art and science exhibition complex—and the beach.
Consider these options if you do not want Valencia as your third stop:
San Sebastian or Bilbao: The Basque Country is an excellent place to visit. San Sebastian is renowned for its tapas (known locally as pintxos) while Bilbao is home to the Guggenheim museum. But, if you're already trying to cram big cities like Barcelona and Madrid into a short tour, adding one of these two is probably biting off more than you can chew. Choose somewhere smaller.
Logroño: This city has all of the gourmet food of San Sebastian, but it's cheaper and closer to Madrid and Barcelona. This would be my choice.
Seville: You can take the high-speed train down to Seville from Madrid and then fly to Barcelona. But again, this is a big city—do you really want to be adding it to an already hectic itinerary?
Zaragoza: This convenient stop is on the same train line as Madrid and Barcelona, but there's little to see apart from its two cathedrals.
Cuenca and Valencia: Visit Cuenca's stunning ravine and hanging houses en route from Madrid to Valencia; round off your day with paella near your hotel in Valencia; and head off to Barcelona the next day: Cuenca and Valencian paella is better than just Valencia.
The Barcelona Museum Pass is cheap and gets you in for free at some of the best art museums in Barcelona. The ARQUEOticket is even cheaper but only gets you into history-related museums. The Barcelona Card gives more free activities than the other two cards and includes free public transport, but it is more expensive and is limited to two to five days' usage.
The activities included on these cards differ greatly. The Barcelona Card may have the most free activities, but they are not necessarily the best. And free transport isn't as good a deal as it may sound, as public transport in Barcelona is cheap.
For the fuller picture of which Barcelona discount card you should get, read on.
Entry to six excellent art museums in Barcelona.
All of these, apart from the Picasso Museum, can be found on the Barcelona Card too.
The prices of each site are listed above. In general, visiting three museums will cover your entry price, so really you need to visit four of these museums before you start saving. 
The total price of entry to these six museums would normally be 57€.
The Barcelona Card is the more inclusive card, but it comes at a price and can only be used for a very limited number of days.
The 46€ card, usable for three days (61€ for five days) gets you free entry to 25 museums in Barcelona as of 2019. These are subject to change so check with the vendor to confirm.
Price in brackets is the normal entry price.
These are subject to change so check when you buy.
At 12€ to 15€ per day, you'll need to go to one of the major museums and use the metro several times (metro tickets normally cost 1€ per ticket if you buy a 10-ticket pass) just to break even, so you'll need to visit two museums per day to make any savings.
For the Barcelona card to be worthwhile, you need to visit at least two museums per day out of the 20 available. For the Museum Pass (Articket) to be worth the money, you need to want to visit at least four of the museums on your trip.
The cheapest card is the Barcelona Card Express. At 20€ for two days, it gets you unlimited public transport and discounted entry to over 100 attractions in the city.
But as usual, it's going to be hard for you to get your money's worth. Even assuming five journeys per day on the metro, that's still 10 euros you'll need to save elsewhere. 

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Getty Images
Hop-on/hop-off tours aren’t the quirkiest or edgiest way to get to know a new city, but they’re comprehensive, easy, and super-convenient, and really do give you a solid understanding of a new place. And when we say comprehensive, we mean it: This company’s comfy double-decker buses travel along three separate loops with 44 total stops and audio commentary in 16 languages. You can sit back in your open-air seats and simply ride, listen, and enjoy the sights of the city as you pass by, or you can use the well-planned route as your personal transportation, jumping off at every stop and exploring. (Probably you’ll want to do some combination of the two, stopping at a few choice stops and enjoying some of the city from the bus.)
You can choose one- or two-day passes and you have unlimited access to the buses, which begin running at 8 a.m. and finish at 9 .p.m, with approximately a 25-minute frequency between buses at each stop.
Getty Images
Whether you’re planning a longer trip that you want to start by getting the lay of the land or you’re only in Barcelona for a day or two, this comprehensive full-day tour will give you an amazing in-depth introduction to the city. It’s actually a combination of two separate tours, each with a different guide and a slightly different perspective on the city.
In the morning, you’ll spend 4.5 hours enjoying a sightseeing tour that combines a bit of walking with some sightseeing from a comfortable motorcoach. Among the highlights that you’ll enjoy: the Plaça de Catalunya, the Gothic Quarter, the Olympic Village, and Montjuic Castle.
The afternoon portion of the tour is focused on Barcelona’s most famous architect, the inimitable Antoni Gaudí. You’ll learn about his life and his theories on art and architecture while touring some of his most profound creations: the towering Sagrada Familia Cathedral, Park Güell, La Pedrera, and Casa Batlló.
Getty Images
Barcelona is a famously bike-friendly city, and even if you’re new to urban biking, you’ll be able to enjoy both the destinations and the journey itself on this half-day tour around the city. You’ll begin your day at a bike shop, where you’ll be fitted for a bike (and helmet/child seat, by request) and have a quick safety briefing, and then you’re off.
You’ll make stops at La Sagrada Familia, Place Sant Jaume, the Arc de Triomf, and La Catedral, among others, and you’ll have time to ask questions and take pictures of each. You’ll also take a bit of time to enjoy Barcelona’s beautiful sandy beach (pack a suit if you want to jump in).
The distance between stops is short, the pace relaxed, and the landscape quite flat, so even those travelers who aren’t super-fit can enjoy this easy route between many of Barcelona’s most interesting attractions.
Getty Images
The oldest part of Barcelona, the Gothic Quarter, is fully pedestrianized, so the best (and only) way to see it is on foot. It’s not huge but the ancient streets are a bit twisty and winding and it’s hard to get your brain wrapped around the layout well enough to make sure that you see everything (and, indeed, you don’t always know what you’re looking at once you do find it). That’s where a great tour comes in.
This two-hour tour takes a stroll through the ancient neighborhood is a fantastic way to get a sense for the deep history of the city as well as the way it has moved into the modern world. You’ll see all of the Quarter’s most famous landmarks, including the Plaça del Rei, the Palatine chapel of Santa Agata, the Roman Temple d’August, the Plaça Sant Jaume, the ancient Roman Walls, and so much more.
It is definitely a serious walking tour, and the streets are largely cobbled, so comfortable, supportive shoes are a must.
Getty Images
You can learn so much about a people by learning what they eat (and how they eat it) and this walking tour offers you a glimpse into Spain’s traditional tapas culture. Along with your small group and your expert guide, you’ll visit three of Barcelona’s best tapas bars for a full hour each (taking your time slowly nibbling and sipping is how it’s done!) while your guide explains some of the history of Spanish cuisine; the influences that different cultures have left upon it and the way it has, in turn, influenced the wider world.
They’ll also help illuminate the Spanish and Catalan people’s relationship with food: The way it is centered in both daily life and in special celebrations, and the dramatic difference between bar culture here and in much of the rest of the world. On a less-heady front, you’ll also simply enjoy lots of different tastes of lots of different local specialties: olives, Spanish ham, cheeses, little open-faced sandwiches of all kinds, and more, plus wine — plenty of wine. The insights you pick up will help you order tapas throughout the rest of your trip, both in terms of knowing which foods you enjoy and the etiquette of ordering and sharing these little plates.
Getty Images
Barcelona is so beautiful that it practically begs to be photographed. But whether you’re a total newbie with a camera or something of an old hat, there’s always room to improve your photography skills, and what better place to do it? This tour takes a small group of participants (maximum 12) on a slow half-day stroll through some of Barcelona’s most interesting neighborhoods and landmarks, including the Born Cultural Center, several Gaudí buildings, La Boqueria market, and the MACBA contemporary art museum.
Along the way, your professional photographer guide will help you further develop your eye, frame shots, play with exposures and shutter speed, use natural light to your best advantage, and more. They’ll also give you some insights into the artistic and architectural history of the city. The tour is appropriate for DSLR users as well as those who are just using a camera phone. 
Getty Images
Antoni Gaudí’s creations are so beautiful, so fantastical, so incredible, but also overwhelming on their own. The buildings are impossibly complex, bearing everything from massive architectural features that seem to defy physics to tiny hidden symbols that easily escape notice. Having an art history expert on hand ​Barcelona you make sense of these on the face (and make sure you don’t miss anything super-cool) is invaluable.
This tour also offers travelers insights into Gaudí’s influences and personal development as an artist -- among several other stops, you’ll see the Casa Vicens, one of his earliest works, as well as those that he designed once he was an established visionary. Further, you’ll get a sense for the art and architectural zeitgeist of his time and have a look at some of the very obvious influence he had on the rest of the art world.
The tour ends at his most amazing and most enduring piece: the still-unfinished Sagrada Familia, the sandcastle-like church that continues to reach closer and closer to the sky. You’ll receive skip-the-line entry and your guide will take you up one of the towers for a spectacular view of the surrounding city, as well as offer insights into both the interior and exterior of this absolutely awe-inspiring building.
Getty Images
If you’re a history buff, particularly one who enjoys lesser-known history, or you have any interest at all in Jewish history or culture, do consider this off-the-beaten-path walking tour of Barcelona’s historic Jewish Quarter.
This neighborhood in the Ciutat Vella (Old City) is one of the city’s earliest and there’s much that can be learned about Judaism in general and even, broadly, the development of the City of Barcelona by digging into the deep history of this specific community. Your walking tour includes a visit to one of the oldest synagogues in Europe and the house of the famous Rabbi Shlomo ben Aderet (known as the Rashba).
As you stroll through the old city, your guide will point out the former locations of a number of Jewish buildings and monuments, as well as some engraved Hebrew words on stones that can be seen in surprising places. You’ll also visit a recently-rediscovered medieval mikveh (Jewish ceremonial bath) and learn a bit about how historians, archaeologists, and religious experts are still uncovering clues to Barcelona’s past. 
Getty Images
Barcelona’s patron saint is Saint George (Sant Jordi) who famously slayed a dragon, so dragons have been a theme for local artists and architects since ancient times, and the city is full of them: more than 1000, in fact, from gargoyles to stained-glass windows and beyond.
This tour engages children with a scavenger hunt that teaches them to look for hidden details on their travels while also teaching them about the extremely cool history of dragons. They’ll learn how European and Asian folklore looks at dragons very differently, discover the way attitudes about (and beliefs about) dragons have evolved through history, and simply how to become an engaged traveler and urban explorer.
Though the tour definitely centers children, their accompanying adults will also get a kick out of the history and mythology on display here, as well as plenty of tidbits about the history of Barcelona itself.
Getty Images
Though modern Barcelona feels almost like a modern fairyland, with its beautiful buildings and abundant greenery, much of the city’s history is downright gruesome. Barcelona was at the heart of the Spanish Inquisition and saw years of torture, violent anti-Semitism, and even executions in the name of Orthodoxy and control.
Suspected witches were burned at the stake at various times throughout history, and criminals were often subject to gory or unusual punishments in many different time periods. Barcelona was also the hub of what would become one of history’s largest genocides, with Queen Isabella and King Ferdinand directing Columbus and his contemporaries to conquer and enslave the “New World.”
And, of course, there were other incidents of suffering throughout the years: wars, pestilence, and good old-fashioned murder. This tour highlights all of this and more on an eerie two-hour nighttime walk through the historic center of the city. Fair warning: this one may not be appropriate for very small children, though tweens and up will likely find it enthralling.
Our writers spent two hours researching the best Barcelona tours on the market. Before making their final recommendations, they considered 50 different tours overall and read over 100 user reviews (both positive and negative). All of this research adds up to recommendations you can trust.
As Spain's two premier cities, you can't go wrong whichever you choose. But if you had to ​select one, which should it be: Madrid or Barcelona?
Of course, you should visit both. And with the high-speed AVE train now serving the route between Madrid and Barcelona, the journey is quicker and easier than ever.
But if you do have to choose, here's a breakdown of the pros and cons of each city.
Lonely Planet/Getty Images
Barcelona is a much more touristy city than Madrid. And tourists bring prices up. It's not that Barcelona doesn't have cheap things to do, it's just that there are much more of them in Madrid.
In Madrid, you can get cod tapas thirty seconds from Sol (Madrid's main square) at Casa Labra for a euro or a great meal for 10 euros just off Gran Via (Madrid's main street) at Con Dos Fogones. The equivalent restaurants in Barcelona are too busy doing paella and sangria 'deals' to offer real value for money.
Meanwhile, Madrid's two best museums (the Reina Sofia and the Prado) have a free entry every night of the week, something you'd never see in Barcelona.
Winner: Madrid
Michael Reeve/Moment/Getty Images
Heard of Toledo and Segovia? They're both near Madrid. The satellite cities around Madrid are some of Spain's most interesting and diverse. Barcelona also has some good day trips, including Figueres (for the Dali museum) and Sitges (for the beach), but Madrid's day trips are unbeatable.
When it comes to exploring the rest of Spain, Madrid's central location makes it far superior to the north-western Barcelona. The AVE train can get you to many Spanish cities incredibly quickly, while normal trains and buses will get you everywhere else.
Winner: Madrid
Patrice_Audet/Pixabay
Architecture is the main reason tourists visit Barcelona. Most of Gaudi's madcap modernist buildings are in Barcelona and it is in these designs that the city's reputation is hinged. Madrid has some attractive buildings, especially along Gran Via, but it can't compete with Barcelona.
Winner: Barcelona
Grant Faint/Getty Images
Catalan cuisine is well respected throughout Spain. Not far from the touristy areas of Barcelona you'll find some great food, but it takes more effort than in Madrid, and you'll always end up paying more. A good tour company, such as Food Lovers Company, can ensure you're not disappointed.
Eating out in Madrid is less difficult. The restaurant scene in the capital takes in all the regions of Spain and countries of the world and it isn't spoiled by the kind of tourist-focussed eateries that plague Barcelona.
Winner: Madrid
Alberto Manuel Urosa Toledano/Getty Images
Though both cities have an abundance of language schools, language exchange evenings, and people looking to meet and practice their language skills, the important thing to remember is that the main language in Barcelona is Catalan, not (Castilian) Spanish.
For this reason, alone, Madrid wins.
Winner: Madrid 
Bruce Yuanyue Bi/Getty Images
Madrid has three of Spain's most famous art museums: the Prado (which ranks up there with the Louvre for pre-20th century art), the modern art of the Reina Sofia (featuring Picasso's masterpiece, the Guernica), and the Thyssen-Bornemisza, said to be one of the best private art collections in the world.
Barcelona is not short of art museums, with the Picasso museum being the most famous, Madrid is a clear winner here.
Winner: Madrid
SteveAllenPhoto/Twenty20
Barcelona has a beach, Madrid doesn't. Or at least not a real one. But in 2011, Madrid council unveiled Madrid Rio, a new complex by the Manzanares river publicized as having its own beach, but it doesn't really - just a place to sunbathe (the Retiro Park as just as good for this). But if you want a real beach, you need a coast, something Barcelona has. However, Barcelona's beach is horrible and should be avoided. Luckily, there are plenty of beaches nearby (such as in Sitges) to make Barcelona a good destination for catching some rays.
Winner: Barcelona
Alexander Spatari/Getty Images
It would be difficult to argue anything other than Barcelona for this one. Barcelona's proximity to the Mediterranean gives it slightly cooler summers than Madrid, but milder winters and springs. Madrid has great springs and falls, but winter and summer can be a little on the extreme side.
Winner: Barcelona
Jordi Vidal/Redferns/Getty Images
Both cities have packed event calendars.
Barcelona has both the Primavera Sound and Sonar music festivals, as well as the neighborhood celebrations of Gracia and Merce. Meanwhile, Madrid's gay district, Chueca, gives Spain one of its most flamboyant carnival seasons (not to mention Gay Pride).
Winner: Barcelona
Enrique Pellejer/Getty Images
Kids are well looked after in both Madrid and Barcelona. There are some good science museums in both cities. Kids will appreciate the modern art of Picasso and Dali (perhaps more than most adults), and there's plenty of them in both cities. But it is Barcelona's modernist art that, like with their parents, will capture the children's imagination the most.
Winner: Barcelona
Damian Corrigan
Two of the best nightclubs are in Barcelona (Sidecar and Razzmatazz). However, while Barcelona has some great individual bars and clubs, Madrid has whole streets of cool nightspots. Whatever your age or taste in music, Madrid will have somewhere for you.
Winner: Madrid
Allan Baxter/Getty Images
Madrid's appeal is a little more subtle; it takes much longer to get a real feel for the capital than for Barcelona. You could find several reasons for this - the architecture of Barcelona is an obvious point in its favor, as is its setting between the mountains of Montjuic and Tibidabo and its more obvious 'center'. If you only had a weekend in Spain, you'd feel like you 'got' Barcelona much faster than you would Madrid.
On the other hand, the longer you stay in Madrid, the more you'll appreciate it.
Winner: Barcelona
Jorg Greuel/Getty Images
Gaudi has a lot to answer for. Through his weird and wacky architecture, Barcelona has become the city that captures the imagination of most visitors to Spain. If you have only a brief time in the city, you cannot fail to be impressed by Barcelona.
But take a little more time and Madrid's charms become apparent. Cheaper, with more variety, better food, and generally more to do than Barcelona, Madrid gets the top prize for a longer trip.
If you're in the south of France and want a quick weekend in Spain and to experience Gaudi's architecture, Barcelona is the one for you. But if you have a week to spare to explore a bit more and you like art, go to Madrid.
When planning a trip to Barcelona, you'll want to indulge in the excellent Spanish food and wine, tour the famous museums and landmarks, and perhaps relax on the beach. To keep your budget balanced, take advantage of free attractions: Plan to visit the museums on the free museum days, walk the interesting winding streets in the historic sections of town, and enjoy tastes of regional produce at an open air market.
Barcelona's most famous landmark may charge admission, but viewing it from the outside is free. The Sagrada Familia church is Catalan architect Antoni Gaudí's greatest masterpiece and is a must see for everyone visiting Barcelona. And, if you are returning to the city, stop by again, because the construction continues and there's something new to see each year.
Of course, paying the entrance fee does at least help guarantee that they finish the building (over 120 years and counting, so far), but if you're on a very tight budget, you can still appreciate 90 percent of the building from across the street.
TripSavvy / Daniel Gioia
Barcelona's most famous series of streets, Las Ramblas, is a tourist attraction in itself. The street performers are there all day and at night the area comes to life with lights, quaint cafes, and people out strolling after dinner. There is much to see along the streets:
TripSavvy / Daniel Gioia
One of two mountains in Barcelona (the other being Tibidabo), Montjuic has a wealth of sights for those who don't mind a bit of a climb. Take a walk with a nice view of the sea, wander around the old watchtower, and marvel at the Mayor's Belvedere, a collage of broken bottles and pottery by Carles Buïgas.
The Museu Nacional D'Art de Catalunya (National Museum of Catalan Art) is free to those under 15, over 65, and to everyone on the first Sunday of the month.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
Go for a run in a very pleasant park in the center of Barcelona. Parc de la Ciutadella features Barcelona's Arc de Triomf (much nicer than the one in Paris), fountains, a boating lake, ornate museums (not free), a zoo (also not free), and beautiful running and walking trails.
The Parc de la Ciutadella, located on the northeastern edge of Ciutat Vella, was created during the mid-19th century and once was the only park in Barcelona.
TripSavvy / Daniel Gioia
You can spend time on the beach catching some rays without even leaving the city at Barceloneta Beach. There's a lot going on at this urban beach from drummers to sand-artists to singing donut salesmen. It tends to be crowded but is also a fun place to people-watch and be entertained.
There are some great seafood restaurants in the Barceloneta neighborhood, a onetime fishermen's quarter that retains its old-world charm. 
There is also a nudist beach, a bit of a walk from the main touristy area.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
Entrance to the Barcelona Cathedral, also known as La Seu (another word for cathedral), La Catredal, or the church of Saint Eulalia, is free so you can explore the beauty of this Romanesque cathedral from both outside and within.
La Seu's spires dominate the Gothic Quarter and the cathedral is surrounded by some of Barcelona's most romantic old quarter winding narrow streets. Look for the 14th-century cloister, overseen by carvings of 13 geese representing the 13 years of the martyred Saint Eulalia, whose tomb is inside the cathedral.
TripSavvy / Daniel Gioia
Several museums have at least one free day a week or month. The most famous is the Picasso museum, the best showcase of works by the Spanish cubist artist. It is only free on the first Sunday of the month. Be forewarned: The line to get in is gigantic so get there early.
The museum is also free to children under 16 and to study groups (only on Wednesday afternoons). Inquire at the museum for more information.
Wikimedia Commons/CC BY-SA 3.0 
Metronom, a showcase for art considered too experimental for mainstream art galleries, is open daily. Located at Fusina, 9, 08003 Barcelona, the site was once an old warehouse. There are rotating exhibits and special events.
TripSavvy / Daniel Gioia
This famous indoor market hall is a colorful explosion of fruit, vegetables, seafood, rows and rows of cured jamón, and some mind-boggling butchers’ displays. There are tapas bars, pizza stalls, and all manner of produce you can try before you buy.
TripSavvy / Daniel Gioia
Joan Miró, born in Barcelona in 1893, is one of the most noted Barcelona artists. Known internationally, Miró art can be found in many public spaces in his native Barcelona. In 1960 he donated four significant pieces of art to the city. You'll see your first Miró piece, the Mural de l’Aeroport, on the outside of the airport’s Terminal 2. There's even a mosaic piece in the middle of the street (look down) on the Pla de l’Os, part of La Rambla just outside the Boquería market. 
TripSavvy / Daniel Gioia
El Raval lacks the historic impact of the neighboring Barri Gòtic (Gothic Quarter), but the network of lively streets around El Raval is home to an eclectic cast of characters including artists, backpackers, punk rockers, students, and more. There are plenty of cool bars and vintage clothing stores, not to mention the colossal Museu d’Art Contemporani de Barcelona (Barcelona Museum of Contemporary Art or MACBA)—as impressive from outside as within. Adjacent is the Centre de Cultura Contemporània de Barcelona. La Boqueria market on La Rambla is fun to explore and the nearby Maritime Museum has replica boats in medieval shipyard scenes.
 Wikimedia Commons/CC BY 1.0
Built for Barcelona’s 1929 World Exposition, this water, sound, and light show has been drawing tourists ever since. You'll love the jets of multicolored water rising in sync vintage numbers and show-tunes from this large fountain located at Plaça de Carles Buïgas.
Every year, the Magic Fountain is the site for the "Piromusical," a huge fireworks display with a music and laser show.
TripSavvy / Daniel Gioia
Barcelona’s graffiti artists are a proud bunch and you’ll find some great examples of their work around town, particularly in El Raval and Poblenou. The city also has a long tradition of street art and sculpture.
Some better-known examples include Peix, a giant fish sculpture designed by Frank Gehry overlooking the beach; Roy Lichtenstein’s 15 meters-high Barcelona Head at the Port Vell; Catalan artist Antoni Tàpies’ Monumental Homage to Picasso on the Passeig de Picasso; and Fernando Botero’s enormous cat on the Rambla del Raval.
TripSavvy / Daniel Gioia
Located next to the Design Museum, Encants flea market has an intriguing mix of trash and treasure. While it’s not without its fair share of odd shoes and outdated electronic devices, there are enough random oddities and antiques to make it worthwhile. There's even a gourmet food court up on the first floor.
Wikimedia Commons/CC BY 2.0 
Barcelona's Roman ruins are found everywhere in the older sections of the city. You can walk the walls of the old Roman city and read the illustrated information posted along the way. You'll find entrances to the old city at Plaça Nova, Pati Llimona Civic Center, and see the wall and towers at Plaça Ramon Berenguer.
You can learn about the Romans at the City Museum (free entrance on Sundays from 3 p.m.–8 p.m.) and find out about the archeological excavations which uncovered ruins of baths, houses, and wine cellars in Barcino.
TripSavvy / Daniel Gioia
Iconic Montjüic Castle is accessible from funicular or a walkway up the hill (nicknamed Jew's Hill). Once you are there you can walk the trail around the outside of the castle and admire the view of the city and the port.
Inside the castle (admission charged), there are gardens and a fascinating military museum with artifacts and dungeons where prisoners were held. 
TripSavvy / Daniel Gioia
Runner Bean Tours will lead you on a leisurely walk through the fascinating Gothic Quarter explaining the culture and history of the area. You'll see both the landmarks of the area but also hidden places you might not discover on your own. The area has a mixture of impressive churches, quaint plazas, and narrow, winding streets to explore with your walking guide. The 2.5-hour tours run daily except December 24, 25, 26, and January 1.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto
In the Quadrat d’or (Golden Quarter) you'll find quite a few Art Nouveau buildings, probably the most in the world. In the area, see the Casa Batlló and La Pedrera, Gaudí’s houses at Passeig de Gràcia.
Along the "Gaudi Trail," you'll find more. The walk starts at Placa Real just off Las Ramblas, goes up Passeig de Gracia, taking in Casa Batllo and La Pedrera before veering off to the east to La Sagrada Familia and ends at Parc Guell.
You might not think of visiting a cemetery in Barcelona, but the intriguing monument art makes that worthwhile. Some of them offer free guided tours (but perhaps you'll need to understand Catalan or Spanish).
Poblenou Cemetery, first built in the 1700s, was the first modern burial ground in Barcelona. The architecture and monumental art makes it worth a visit. When there, see the famous sculpture El Petó de la Mort (The Kiss of Death).
Also up on Montjüic Hill is a cemetery where the rich and famous of Barcelona are buried with impressive monuments on their graves. You can also visit the museum and see the horse-drawn hearses and carriages free on Saturdays and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Wikimedia Commons/CC BY-SA 2.0 
Visit and take a guided tour of Barcelona's city hall located in the middle of the Gothic Quarter. The building is open at no charge every Sunday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. The English tours are at 10 a.m. While there, view the Saló de Cent, the stunning medieval main gathering room where events and weddings are held.
Barcelona, the capital of Spain’s Catalonia region, is known for its famous art collections, Gaudi architecture, and excellent food. Top sights include the Sagrada Família church designed by famous architect Antoni Gaudí. You'll see art by Pablo Picasso and Joan Miró at the modern art museums. Late in the evening, join locals at the tapas bars or take in a Flamenco performance.
 Manfred Gottschalk / Getty Images
The 1.2 kilometers long Las Ramblas is Spain's most famous promenade, often the first landmark that most tourists identify with the city. Las Ramblas (also called La Rambla) is a large boulevard which runs through the heart of the city center.
Las Ramblas runs from Port Vell (near the cruise port terminal) at the southernmost end to Plaça de Catalunya at the northernmost end. There is much to do on the promenade and along the side streets.
TripSavvy / Daniel Gioia
Barrio Gotico is the Gothic Quarter, where the La Seu Cathedral, Plaça del Pi, and myriad dark, winding alleyways preserve the area's rich medieval heritage. A good first stop is the Museu d'Història de Barcelona (Barcelona History Museum), on Plaça del Rei, which houses exhibits covering Barcelona history from its origins in Roman times until the present day.
The area's narrow medieval streets are now filled with bars, clubs, and Catalan restaurants. The Plaça del Pi, named after the adjacent Gothic church, hosts a weekend art market.
LLUIS GENE / Getty Images
El Born is the site of one of Spain's finest Catalan Gothic churches, Santa Maria del Mar, built between 1329 and 1383. The medieval passageways adjoining it will take you to the must-see Picasso Museum. Barcelona's Picasso Museum has one of the most extensive collections of artworks by the artist. The museum houses 4,251 pieces of art, one of the most complete permanent collections of Picasso's works.
After taking in the museum, visit nearby Passeig del Born, one of the trendiest places for a paseo—an afternoon stroll—in the city and is lined with modern bars and bistros.
Restaurante Barceloneta
Barceloneta is Barcelona's fishermen's barrio. It has the most popular beaches in the city, some of the best seafood eateries, and a magnificent port. At Restaurant Barceloneta, you can enjoy fresh seafood with a view of the docked yachts and fishing boats. For something more casual, try Can Mano where they say the fish is so fresh it's delivered through the back door as you are entering the restaurant from the front. They specialize in taking the freshest fish and then preparing it by frying or grilling with garlic.
KarSol / Getty Images
El Raval looks, smells, and tastes different. This multicultural hub showcases delicious international cuisine, much of the city's best graffiti, unusual drinking spots, and contemporary art in the award-winning MACBA Museum, the Barcelona Museum of Contemporary Art in English. This contemporary art museum, situated in the Plaça dels Àngels, offers a range of temporary exhibits such as a John Lennon/Yoko Ono exhibit of sketches and works by Picasso featuring Paris. Every Saturday from 4 to 8 p.m., entry to the museum is free.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto
The Eixample district is all about the extraordinary modernist architecture of Gaudi, Domènech ​i Montaner, and Cadafelch, centered upon the surreally beautiful Passeig de Gràcia. It's also Barcelona's top shopping avenue. 
The most famous building in this section of Barcelona is Gaudi's Sagrada Famí​lia but other Gaudi buildings you can admire are Casa Batllo and Casa Milá, one of Barcelona's popular modernist buildings called “the stone quarry” due to its organic rough exterior.
Sagrada Familia is the most famous of Gaudí’s works and the church has been in construction since 1892 and might be finished by 2026, it is said. While the church's facade is reminiscent of the gothic style, inside is more contemporary and magical with high, vaulting columns framing colorful stained glass windows and rising up to support an intricately carved ceiling. 
Francisco Goncalves / Getty Images
Gràcia sees itself as a village within the city, but visit its buzzing Carrer de Verdi and Plaça del Sol and you'll find a vibrant community whose festival in August is one of Barcelona's most unforgettable. For a week in August, the streets of Gràcia are decorated in a neighborhood competition to win prizes.
A theme is chosen by each street such as underwater sea life or hot air balloons. Visitors walk under the canopies of decorations enjoying food stands and special events.
Year-round, Gràcia is known for upscale shopping and vibrant nightlife on Plaça del Sol.
TripSavvy / Daniel Gioia
Montjuïc is dominated by the presence of its 17th-century castle, Olympic Stadium, and Royal Palace of Pedralbes. It is also home to some of Spain's finest museums, including the Miró Foundation and CaixaForum.
One of the major tourist attractions in Barcelona is the Montjuïc Magic Fountain. The magic fountain is a spectacular display of color, light, music and water show. Designed for the 1929 Universal Exhibition by the engineer Carles Buigas, the Magic Fountain of Barcelona was restored in 1992 for the Olympic Games. 
On schedule, the huge fountain bubbles and spouts cascades of water in a sensational show set to music and lit by a rainbow of colors. The show schedule varies depending on the season but thousands gather at night to see the spectacle year-round.
Francisco Goncalves / Getty Images
A funicular ride to the top of Mount Tibidabo provides the best views of Barcelona. Lower down, the Royal Palace of Pedralbes, a residence of the Spanish Royal Family from 1919 until 1931 has a wonderful ceramics museum, and Pedralbes Monastery stores a treasure trove of religious art.
Taking the funicular to the top of the mountain is a popular activity with visitors and families will love the little amusement park at the top. It was built in 1889 and some of the rides date back to that era.
You take the Tramvia Blau vintage streetcar halfway up the mountain and then catch a funicular to the summit. At the top, there are magnificent views.
Palau del Flamenc
While in Barcelona, take in a show by some of Spain’s foremost musicians and dancers, and enjoy some tapas or a meal as you watch. Flamenco has its origins in the folk music of Spain and was influenced by Spanish, gypsy, and Moorish instruments and styles. Most of the top flamenco venues in Barcelona offer two or three shows a night. At the Palau del Flamenc, performances are on a theater-style stage and the audience has a choice of eight different meal options including tapas.
Located on the famous La Rambla boulevard, the Tablao Flamenco Cordobes is one of the most popular venues in Barcelona. With an authentic cave-like hall where artists perform, the sound of the flamenco here is pure and authentic.
Can Paixano
If you are a fan of sparkling wine you'll love Catalan cava, which is fermented in the bottle just like Champagne. Can Paixano, aka La Xampanyeria, is probably the most highly regarded place to drink local cava. This cava bar is popular with both locals and visitors and is a place to purchase a bottle or two as well as taste. Order some tapas or a ración (small portion) of food with your bubbles as is the expectation at this relatively inexpensive bar.
JOSEP LAGO / Getty Images
See Barcelona at your own pace on a one-day or two-day hop-on hop-off tour on a red modern double-decker bus. This tour is an easy way to get around Barcelona and see the sights as there are two different routes covering all the main attractions including Las Ramblas, the Port Olímpic beachfront promenade, and Sagrada Familia.
Book your pass online and go to one of the route stops to hop on the bus. If you want to get a fantastic city overview, book both loops and settle in for a great sightseeing trip. There is an audio commentary on what you are seeing as you travel that you can hear by using headphones. If you hop off, don't worry about how long you can visit an attraction as the buses come by every 15 minutes.
Jorg Greuel / Getty Images
The Park Güell is a public park system with gardens and architectural elements on Carmel Hill. In 1984 UNESCO declared the park a World Heritage Site. One of the most impressive Gaudí projects in the city, the park is very popular and an admission fee is charged (the Gaudí House Museum is additional).
The park, which was once a planned neighborhood, was commissioned by Eusebi Güell in 1900. He and Gaudí planned a gated community for Barcelona’s elite. Originally there were to be 60 homes built but the concept didn't attract buyers and only two were built. The project was abandoned in 1914, and in 1922, the city turned the land into a public park. Even so, it is impressive to explore. There are buildings, walls, and Gaudí creations that attract crowds of visitors.
Jelena990 / Getty Images
Located on Mount Montjuïc, Fundació Joan Miró was established in 1968 by the Catalan artist himself to make his art more accessible to the public. The museum houses more than 10,000 of his famous works. In this beautiful white building, you'll find the work of Miro and some of his contemporaries such as Alexander Calder—see his fountain of moving mercury.
Oleg_P / Getty Images
Barcelona’s seaside district, Barceloneta, is a fun place to fly a kite, kick back and relax in the sand, wade in the surf, and buy from the souvenir hawkers. You can walk the docks to watch the fishing boats come in and if you want to enjoy Catalan seafood with a view, head to nearby Restaurante Barceloneta.
LLUIS GENE / Getty Images
Soccer fans love to cheer on Barcelona’s home team, Futbol Club Barcelona (“Barça” for short). Camp Nou, the soccer stadium, seats nearly 100,000 spectators. If there is no game scheduled, you can take a guided tour of the stadium, which includes the “players’ tunnel” leading to the field, the locker room, and a visit to the museum. For an additional price, there are game day tours.
Gerard Puigmal / Getty Images
Parc de la Ciutadella, a lush 19th-century park built over the previous site of a military citadel, is made for relaxation. You can find a bench in the shade or take a rowboat out on the lake. The Cascada fountain, a Neoclassical work designed by Josep Fontserè with two tiers, a monument with an arch, and central Venus statue is a must-see.
Danny Lehman / Getty Images
Barcelona's beautiful Palau de la Música Catalana is an amazing example of Catalan art nouveau. Built by architect Lluís Domènech i Montaner, the palace is a UNESCO World Heritage site. The interior is stunning and features mosaic pillars, intricate sculpture work, and sparkling stained glass windows and a massive skylight. The Palace of Catalan Music is a marvelous place to hear the symphony, international musical acts, and traditional Catalan music.
If you can't get a ticket to a performance in the palace, you can take a guided tour which is offered daily. Tours take place every 30 minutes and last 55 minutes. Tickets are available on the Palace of Catalan Music's website.
libin jose / Getty Images
Small groups can learn about the ingredients and prepare paella, drink wine, and have an authentic cooking experience with Marta, a good host, cook, and instructor—all in her own top floor Barcelona apartment.
While Paella is a Valencian rice dish from the east coast of Spain adjacent to the city of Valencia, it is popular in Barcelona because of the availability and love of seafood in the Catalan capital.
JOSEP LAGO / Getty Images
The Sardana is a traditional Catalan folk dance symbolizing unity where participants dance in a circle holding hands. As more people join in, the circle gets bigger. There are two main groups who organize Sardanas at the Pla de la Seu—you'll find the dancing on Saturday afternoons and Sunday mornings.
As Spain's second-largest city after Madrid, Barcelona teems with no shortage of things to see and do. Getting from one place to the other in a city this size can seem challenging to first-time visitors. Throw in the unfamiliar Catalan place names, and things are seemingly complicated even further.
But although it seems complicated at first, Barcelona's public transportation system is a cheap, easy and efficient way to get around town. It's a much better option than renting a car, and although the city is quite walkable, sometimes catching the metro or a bus can save you valuable time.
Here in Barcelona, the most popular way to get around town is via metro.
Operated by TMB (Transports Metropolitans de Barcelona), locals tend to prefer the metro for its easy-to-use system, low fares, and frequency of trains.
Metro stations are usually indicated by red and white signs bearing an M. Once inside the station, purchase a ticket from the electronic machines (instructions are available in Catalan, Spanish, English and French), and use it to pass through the turnstiles.
Barcelona Metro Fast Facts:
Start planning your journey using the Barcelona metro system's online route planner.
Buses in Barcelona are another easy way of getting around town, with the added bonus of getting to see the city pass by as you ride. TMB, the same company that runs the Metro, also operates the bus system.
Bus stops in Barcelona are either shelters or poles displaying the numbers of the bus lines that stop there. As your bus approaches, wave to the driver to indicate that you'd like to board.
Once on the bus, be sure to validate your travel pass (such as the T10 card) if you have one; if not, you can buy a ticket from the driver for €2.20. The largest bill accepted is 10 euros.
When your stop is approaching, press the red button to signal the driver. Exit the bus through the rear doors.
Check the TMB website for full information about how to take the bus, including operating hours.
Rodalies is the suburban train network throughout Catalonia. Its stations are identified by a white R against an orange background. This is an especially great transport option for taking day trips from Barcelona.
Information about the trains, including schedules and routes, is available on the Rodalies website.
The tram network in Barcelona is not very extensive at this point, but it's a great way to explore beyond the city center. There are six tram lines and nearly 30 kilometers of track. Visit the Barcelona tram website to learn more.
Official Barcelona taxis are painted black with yellow doors. They can be found at taxi ranks all over town, or you can call one at +34 933 033 033.
While renting a vehicle can be a great way to explore further-afield parts of Catalonia, it's not really an ideal way to get around Barcelona. The sheer number of people and vehicles in the city can make it difficult to get around, other drivers seemingly treat traffic laws as mere guidelines, and finding a decent, centrally located parking spot (that's not in an expensive garage) is next to impossible. Our advice: save yourself the money and frustration.
Bicing, Barcelona's bike-sharing program, has become a popular method of public transportation in the Catalan capital.
With more than 6,000 mechanical bikes and 800 electric bikes available to rent, it's a quick and efficient way to get around town. It's also easily integrated with other modes of public transportation in Barcelona, with docking stations conveniently located near metro stations and bus stops.
Barcelona is a world within a city. The Catalan capital offers dozens of unique neighborhoods that each have their own one-of-a-kind feel. The good news: there's something for everyone. The hard part: narrowing it down.
That's where this guide comes in handy. We'll walk you through some of the best Barcelona neighborhoods, so you can be sure to find the spot that's perfect for your taste, plans, and budget.
Westend61/Getty Images
 
Let's start with a classic. The Gothic Quarter is Barcelona's most storied, iconic neighborhood. As a result, it's also the most popular, particularly among tourists.
While some lament that the Gothic Quarter is losing its authenticity in the age of gentrification, it still manages to captivate. Its narrow cobblestone streets and medieval architecture will take your breath away. Plus, its prime location right in the heart of the city makes it ideal for sightseeing and getting around.
skyNext/Getty Images 
As one of Barcelona's oldest neighborhoods, El Born certainly has its fair share of things to see and do. From the stunning Santa María del Mar Basilica to a wealth of museums (including the Picasso Museum and even a chocolate museum), it's safe to say you'll never be bored while exploring its picturesque streets.
When you need a break from exploring, stop for a drink or a bite to eat. Born is home to some of Barcelona's best bars and restaurants.
Marga Frontera/Getty Images 
In the past, Raval was a sketchy no-go area and one of the most dangerous neighborhoods in Barcelona. Luckily, that's changed, because the rejuvenated Raval is one of the city's most colorful and eclectic barrios.
This bohemian hipsters' paradise is centrally located, but much less expensive than the nearby Gothic Quarter and Born. It also boasts one of the most concentrated collection of international eateries in town, thanks to its status as a multicultural hotspot.
Artur Bogacki/Getty Images
 
Poble Sec provides the best of both worlds. Situated just south of the city center in between the must-see sights of Montjuïc Hill and the port district, the location couldn't be better. But this laid-back area is much more relaxed and low-key than its touristy neighbors. It's a perfect home base if you want to be close to the action, but in a more chilled-out zone.
While none of Barcelona's must-see attractions are in Poble Sec itself, the neighborhood provides a fascinating opportunity to live like a local. Its charming streets are full of incredible, locally owned shops, bars and restaurants, and after spending some time there, you'll practically fit right in.
Orbon Alija/Getty Images
 
With its neat, gridlike layout and abundance of Modernist architecture, Eixample is a must on any Barcelona itinerary. With a diverse selection of shopping options, eateries, and nightlife destinations, it provides something for everyone, with an upscale sophistication that feels at once elegant and unpretentious.
Zosia Korcz/Unsplash
 
Once you head north of Avinguda Diagonal, you won't be in Barcelona anymore. Or at least it'll feel like you're not in Barcelona anymore. The Gràcia district used to be a completely separate village before being swallowed up by an ever-expanding Barcelona in the 19th century, and the strong sense of local identity still runs deep.
Here, people overwhelmingly speak Catalan rather than Spanish, and you'll get a major small-town vibe despite being in busy Barcelona. Gràcia is charming, idyllic, and perfect for curious travelers looking for an off-the-beaten-path experience.
 TripSavvy / Daniel Gioia
The nearby beach of the same name might be one of the most touristy in Barcelona, but the neighborhood of Barceloneta itself is far from it. A onetime humble fishermen's quarter, walking its streets still manages to feel like time has stood still.
Here, you'll find colorful homes, a lingering sea breeze, and plenty of fresh seafood made to order at the numerous tapas bars and restaurants. You can't get much better than this charming little neighborhood if being near the beach is your main goal.
Sergi Escribano/Getty Images
 
Once an industrial zone that was home to factories and little else, Poblenou has undergone a spectacular transformation in recent years. Today, it's one of Barcelona's biggest creative hotspots.
Art, technology, and design converge in this modern neighborhood just east of the city center. Few tourists make it out this way, so you'll blend right in with the locals. And as a bonus, nearby Bogatell Beach is perfect for those who want to avoid the crowded shores of Barceloneta.
Marga Frontera/Getty Images
 
Small, up-and-coming, and decidedly off the beaten path, Sant Antoni has made a name for itself in recent years as one of Barcelona's top dining destinations. Home to a grandiose, recently reopened food market and no shortage of great tapas bars, it's easily Barcelona's best neighborhood for foodies.
But even if eating your weight in fabulous food isn't your main goal, Sant Antoni should still be on your radar. It offers an irresistible charm that's hard to find in many other Barcelona neighborhoods, and is populated by friendly locals who will soon start to feel like good friends.
Eloi_Omella/Getty Images
 
If the name Sants rings a bell, it's probably because you're thinking of Barcelona's main train station. But Sants and the nearby Montjuïc neighborhood—which are often grouped together as Sants-Montjuïc—have so much more to offer.
Obviously, Montjuïc Hill and its many sights are big draws. But the area is also home to some seriously great shopping, and its leisurely atmosphere makes it the perfect place for an afternoon or evening stroll.

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Grand, fairytale-like Barcelona is one of the world’s great walking cities. Wide boulevards, lush green spaces at every turn, and beautiful architecture everywhere you look—it’s easy to just walk and walk for hours, stopping only for the occasional tapas top-up.
With so much to see and such a rich history, you might find your Barcelona visit significantly improved with an in-depth walking tour. Tours, led by expert local guides, are available with all sorts of themes in mind—architecture, art, history—as well as with interactive elements, such as tapas tastings or professional photographers who’ll give you photography tips as you stroll.
With many great options, it’s not a question of whether you should take a tour (or more than one!) but which one is the right one for you. Check out some of our favorite tours below.
Getty Images
Tapas are the tasty little one-bite snacks that are at the center of Spain’s legendary pub food scene. They’re ubiquitous in Barcelona, with each bar offering more tempting nibbles than the last, but there’s a fine art to ordering them, and locals know what to order where and which drinks to pair with which snacks. Demystify the experience by heading out for your first tapas crawl with a local expert. This tour, focused around La Rambla and the Gothic Quarter, includes a visit to a specialty food center, gourmet markets, and a number of tapas bars for tastings, during and between which your guide will explain the history of Spanish and Catalan food and offer some insights into other aspects of the neighborhoods you pass through. It’s a great way to learn about common ingredients you’ll see on tapas menus, get a sense for how to do the actual ordering, and learn a whole lot about the city through the lens of food.
Getty Images
Barcelona is more than just photogenic — this beautiful city downright begs to have her photo taken at every turn. This walking tour pairs you with a professional photographer who will not only lead you between some of the city’s most snap-worthy locations but also help you use your camera, offering tips on how to frame a shot and use light to your advantage. The tour covers a diverse array of sights, so you’ll have an opportunity to practice taking lots of different types of shots.
On the docket: Port Vell, where you can snap fishing boats bobbing in the sea; La Boqueria food market, where stacks of beautiful produce beckon; the El Born neighborhood, full of murals and street art and interesting people; and, of course, plenty of Gaudi buildings, with their organic grandeur and eye-catching details. At the end of the 3.5-hour tour, you’ll have a spectacular self-made souvenir to take home with you.
Getty Images
The history of Barcelona is best thought of in the plural: countless individual stories, told over centuries, of people and groups who have found their way to this remarkable place, usually for better, sometimes for worse. Studying the overarching history of the city is fascinating, but taking a deep dive into a more specific story can open its own window and lead you to a deeper understanding.
This tour takes you through the oldest continually-occupied area of the city, Barcelona’s Jewish Quarter, where you’ll see one of Europe’s oldest synagogues, a recently-excavated medieval mikveh (ritual bath), and the house of Rabbi Shlomo ben Aderet, known as the Rashba, a leading medieval scholar of Judaism. Along the way, you’ll learn stories of the people who lived, worked, and prayed in these places and how their story fits in with the greater story of Barcelona, Spain, Europe, and the world. This fascinating tour lasts about two hours and ends in Placa de Sant Jaume.
Getty Images
Enjoy the personalized attention and fast-moving flexibility of a small group on this walking tour that focuses on Barcelona’s most famous architect, Antoni Gaudi, and some of his modernist contemporaries and followers. You’ll visit a cafe where Gaudi was once a regular, stroll the Passeig de Gracia, see some of the most famous houses that Gaudi designed (Casa Calvet, Casa Mila, and Casa Batllo), and view some other modernist buildings designed by architects like Puig ​i Cadafalch and Domench i Montaner.
After your explorations of downtown (which also include some Catalan snacks and hand-dipped chocolates), you’ll hop in a taxi and head to the world-famous La Sagrada Familia, the magnificent sandcastle-like cathedral designed by Gaudi and still under construction (expected completion: 2026). The tour stays outside the cathedral, examining only the facades and exterior architectural elements, but it ends here, so if you’d like to enter the cathedral, you can do so either on your own or with an upgraded tour.
Viator
Picasso was not born in Barcelona, but he spent what was perhaps the most formative decade of his life here, from his late teens to his mid-20s. This tour takes a holistic look at Picasso’s life in Barcelona, visiting places where he studied and painted, but also at cafes and salons where he’d hang out with other members of the city’s fertile artistic community. You’ll see El Quatre Gats, a cafe frequented by Picasso (along with Gaudi and other famous names), as well as the art school where a young Picasso studied at the urging of his father.
After a stroll through the arts-heavy La Ribera neighborhood, you’ll find yourself at the world-class Picasso Museum, where skip-the-line access allows you immediate entry. Your guide will show you through the museums collections, which focus on the artist’s early and developmental works, offering perhaps the most distinctly human look at Picasso of any of the museums dedicated to him in the world. Your tour concludes at the museum, where you’re welcome to continue exploring on your own, should you so choose.
Viator
Many people first fell in love with Barcelona in the pages of Carlos Ruiz Zafon’s 2001 international bestseller The Shadow of the Wind, which sold more than 15 million copies worldwide. Taking place in a fantasy-laced version of 1940s Barcelona, the novel is a story-within-a-story that features dozens of real-life locations throughout the city. This tour focuses on those: the beautiful Santa Maria del Mar, Els Quatre Gats Cafe, as well as the locations for the fictional Cemetery of Forgotten Books and the Sempere and Sons Bookshop. Along the way, your guide — a literature expert from the nearby university – will explain the literary and general history of Barcelona and point out other places of interest to book-lovers: bookshops old and new, stationery and pen stores, libraries, and homes of other authors and literary figures. It’s a fascinating window into the city, and a must-do for fans of the book.
Getty Images
Barcelona is a famously LGBTQ+-friendly city and has long been a vacation destination for gay couples. You will find that most tours of the bookshops are gay-friendly and this tour is welcome to all, but if you’re looking for a Barcelona history/walking tour that includes significant amounts of gay history (and where your guide will also be a good resource if you’re looking for additional sites of interest to the gay community), this is the tour for you. The three-hour walking tour covers a significant portion of the oldest parts of Barcelona, visiting the Gothic Quarter, Ciutadella Park, the modernist Castle of the Three Dragons, and the Catalan Parliament. This is a private tour and your guide will meet you at your accommodations, so you’ll have tremendous flexibility to cater the tour to your own personal interests, as well as ask any questions you have about the city, its history, and its current dining and club scenes.
Getty Images
Get up and at ‘em with this morning walking tour, starting at 9:30 a.m. at Placa Sant Jaume in Barcelona’s historic Gothic Quarter. The two-hour tour explores this medieval region of the city and all of its nooks and crannies. You’ll see the ancient Roman Walls, the Ancient Synagogue of Barcelona, the Roman Temple of Augustus, the Santa Agata chapel, the medieval Royal Palace, and so much more.
Because this neighborhood is particularly labyrinthine, it’s really wonderful to have a guide help you catch your bearings, while also teaching you about the history of the city and these specific buildings and locations. If you can, bring a map (or drop pins on your phone map) so you can find your way back to sites of particular interest — there will be some and the geography of the old city is seldom mastered in a day.
Getty Images
Though Barcelona looks like a fairy wonderland, its history is not all pleasant. Far from it, in fact. This small-group tour introduces you to the darker side of the city’s past. You’ll stroll through the old city at twilight, starting from the Arc de Triomf and ending at El Born Cultural Center while your guide regales you with tales of the Spanish Inquisition, public executions, medieval torture, and so much more. It may not be pretty, but it’s all true, and the setting, with darkness falling over the gothic buildings, makes it all even more real. The particularly brutal content is not really suitable for kids, so the recommended age is 14 and over. This tour is fully wheelchair-accessible.
The region of Catalonia, of which Barcelona is the capital, is a rich region with the Pyrenees in the north and the Costa Blanca coast to the south-east. Most of the region is reachable on a day trip from Barcelona.
Not only are the trips below the best to take from Barcelona, but they are also the closest and easiest (in particular, the first three are).
If cities are cities to you and you're more interested in the Catalan countryside, you have some excellent options right on your doorstep.
The high-speed AVE train from Barcelona to Girona and Figueres has made some of these day trips a lot easier than they used to be. 
There are several wine-producing regions in Catalonia. You can take tours of the Penedes wine region and sample both reds and cava (Spanish sparkling white wine) or take a longer trip to visit Priorat.
If Madrid is too much for one day there are other cities in and around Catalonia.
The best time to visit Barcelona is in the spring. You've got beautiful weather (think temperatures in the high 60s and 70s Fahrenheit), a handful of fascinating cultural events, and — as the tail end of low season — fewer tourist crowds. That being said, summertime brings prime beach weather, and the city also holds a special allure during the winter holidays.
Visitors to Barcelona in the low season will enjoy shorter lines at attractions, and locals won't have to deal with nearly as many crowds as they go about their day-to-day lives.
The weather in Barcelona throughout much of the year tends to be on the pleasant side. Even in winter, temperatures tend to hover in the relatively mild range of 40 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit, making the Catalan capital a much warmer destination than most other major European cities at the same time of year.
Spring and fall are as lovely as it gets, with plenty of sunshine and warm temperatures lasting throughout the majority of both seasons.
Summers are hot and humid, with temperatures staying in the low 80s throughout much of the day (even at night). However, that just gives you an excuse to visit one of the many fabulous beaches in Barcelona.
Both tourist crowds and prices on accommodation and travel are at their highest during peak season from late May until early September. If you're dead-set on traveling during this time to make the most of the splendid weather and fabulous beaches, book everything as early as possible to avoid sudden price hikes as the season approaches.
Summer also sees much more crowding in Barcelona's more touristy areas due to the high number of travelers, particularly those coming from cruise ships. Be prepared to wait in long lines, and consider booking your spot at popular attractions (such as the Sagrada Familia) in advance.
Low season (fall through early spring), on the other hand, tends to be much more pleasant for everyone involved. Tourists can enjoy lower accommodation prices and shorter lines at attractions, and locals don't have to deal with nearly as many people crowding into their city. It's win-win.
January is typically Barcelona's coldest month, but keep in mind that "cold" here means an average of 55 degrees Fahrenheit. Tourist crowds are at their thinnest, which means shorter lines at attractions such as the Sagrada Familia and Parc Güell, and accommodation prices tend to be quite low as well. It's also a great month for shopping as the semi-annual rebajas (sales) kick off throughout Spain.
Events to check out:
February weather in Barcelona can be quite fickle, with seemingly one pleasant, sunny day for each chilly, rainy one. That being said, it's still low season, and the rebajas are still going strong, so it's a very budget-friendly month on the whole. For the foodies out there, February is peak calçot season, which means many restaurants throughout Barcelona will be offering these tasty Catalan veggies for a limited time.
Events to check out:
Without a doubt, March is one of the best times to visit Barcelona. As winter melts into spring, the pleasant temperatures and low rainfall still haven't caught the attention of most tourists, so accommodation prices are still generally low.
Events to check out:
As spring officially begins, low season draws to a close. April is generally the last month until fall that sees relatively low crowds and prices. Weather is exceedingly pleasant for the most part, but brief rain showers are not uncommon.
Events to check out:
As the temperatures and daily hours of sunshine increase, so do prices and tourist crowds. May marks the unofficial start of high season in Barcelona, so prepare for higher accommodation costs and longer lines at attractions. However, with temperatures in the mid-to-high 70s Fahrenheit, you may even be able to start enjoying the beach — especially near the end of the month.
Events to check out:
It's officially beach season, and though June is one of the busiest times of year in Barcelona, it's also one of the warmest. Bring plenty of sunscreen to prepare for the scorching daytime temperatures and relentless rays.
Events to check out:
In July, tourist season reaches its peak, and the city center and beaches often experience overcrowding. Temperatures are officially recorded in the high 80s Fahrenheit most days, but can feel much warmer due to the humidity.
Events to check out:
The weather in Barcelona in August is much the same as it is in July, meaning that beaches can get quite crowded. Additionally, this is one of the most expensive times of year to visit the city as far as accommodation prices. The good news: the second round of rebajas sales officially kicks off this month. However, many small local businesses will close up shop for a few weeks as their owners head off on vacation.
Events to check out:
Things start to calm down a bit in September, both weather-wise (no more brutal heat) and in terms of tourism. Early in the month, temperatures will still be nice enough to enjoy the beaches, which won't be as crowded as the preceding months.
Events to check out:
Barcelona settles back into low season as fall begins. October weather is still on the idyllic side, with high temperatures remaining comfortably in the low 70s throughout much of the month.
Events to check out:
Although the weather is starting to turn chilly, November is one of the most pleasant times of year to visit Barcelona. Low season is in full swing, which means fewer crowds and lower accommodation prices.
Events to check out:
Barcelona takes on a positively magical air during the winter holidays. December is on the chillier side with temperatures in the 50s, but the festive spirit in the air and generally low prices make it an ideal time to visit.
Events to check out:
Barcelona is a city of contrasts: it's Catalan and Spanish, traditional and modern, and exciting and laid-back, all at the same time. But it's this perfect harmony that makes Spain's second-largest city fascinating enough to draw around 32 million tourists every year. As one of Europe's chicest cities, home to no shortage of things to see and do, it's important to make every second count while in Barcelona. Here's everything you need to know about planning your getaway to guarantee the trip of your dreams.
Best Time to Visit: Spring and fall feature mild, sunny weather and a pleasant, laid-back vibe. These low-season periods are ideal for both tourists and residents—accommodation prices and lines for major attractions will be on the lower side, and fewer crowds make it easier for locals to go about their daily lives.
Language: Spanish is the official national language of Spain. In Catalonia, Barcelona's region, Catalan has co-official status, so you may see signs and menus written in one or the other—or both.
Currency: Spain uses the euro.
Getting Around: Barcelona boasts a widespread, inexpensive, and efficient public transportation system, making it easy to get around town in a flash. The metro, bus, and tram networks are all safe and easy to use.
Travel Tip: Lines at some of the major Barcelona attractions—such as the Sagrada Familia and the Picasso Museum—can get quite long at the box office. Skip the queues and buy your tickets for important tourist sites online in advance before you go, which will save you valuable time.
You could easily spend months in Barcelona discovering its thriving Catalan heritage and colorful modern culture. Home to great art, live music, and shopping in addition to some of Spain's most iconic tourist attractions, Barcelona is a city where it's nearly impossible to get bored. And if you ever need a quick break, head to one of its gorgeous parks or beaches for a quick dose of vitamin D.
Get more inspiration with our complete lists of things to do in Barcelona, as well as things not to do.
When thinking about food in Spain, one word probably comes to mind: tapas. These aren't just small plates—here in Spain, going out for tapas is an entire social event centered around sharing food and good conversation with friends at a crowded bar. If you're in the mood for a sit-down meal, you'll also find plenty of rustic, traditional Catalan fare, as well as an exciting array of international restaurants representing the city's vibrant immigrant community.
Barcelona is one of Spain's most exciting cities for wine lovers, with century-old bodegas standing side-by-side with sleek, contemporary wine bars. Beyond the typical Catalan reds and whites—which are excellent—you'll also find a lot of locals drinking vermouth and cava, Spain's answer to champagne. Beer lovers will be pleased to know that the city is also home to a growing number of microbreweries serving up some of the most fascinating craft brews in the country.
Find more foodie tips in our guides to the top bars and restaurants in Barcelona.
When it comes to where to stay in Barcelona, the best neighborhoods are just a hop, skip, and a jump away from the city center. By staying here, you'll save money on your accommodation and avoid the louder touristy areas, making for a more pleasant stay.
Gracia, formerly its own village before being swallowed up by the ever-expanding metropolis that is Barcelona in the 19th century, retains plenty of small-town charm while keeping you close to the action of the modern city. Just south of that is Eixample, a chic, sophisticated district with a great shopping and dining scene. And if a seaside atmosphere is what you're after, you'll love the quaint old fishermen's quarter that is Barceloneta (while the beach of the same name is far from Barcelona's best, the neighborhood itself offers irresistible charm).
Take a deeper dive into where to stay in Barcelona with our guides to the city's top hotels and top boutique hotels.
Three major Catalan airports serve the Barcelona area, but if you're staying in the city itself, your best bet is likely to fly into Barcelona-El Prat (BCN). If you're already in Spain or even elsewhere in Europe, the city is well-connected by bus and train as well, and is conveniently served by Spain's high-speed train line (the AVE).
Though legally part of Spain, many residents of Catalonia—including Barcelona—consider themselves Catalan rather than Spanish. This means you might be more likely to see and hear the Catalan language being used, and some people may get upset if you identify them as being from Spain, so be respectful of the local identity. Large, peaceful demonstrations in favor of Catalan independence are not uncommon.
Tipping in Spain is not as customary as it is other countries, most notably the United States. As a general rule, a small tip (such as rounding up the bill to the nearest euro) is appreciated, but is not necessary in most industries.
Barcelona is generally a safe city, but petty crime such as pickpocketing does happen. Keep an eye on your belongings, and be aware of your surroundings at all times.
Get more bang for your buck (or euro) by reading our complete guide to free things to do in Barcelona.
