Three airports serve Berlin: Berlin Brandenberg Airport in Schoenefeld, Berlin International Airport in Tegal, and Berlin Brandenberg International (BBI), the newest airport, will open soon (planned date, March 2012).
There are three tourist offices in Berlin, the main one located in the Europa center (Zoo Station). Other locations are the south wing of the Brandenburg Gate and at the base of the TV tower at Alexanderplatz. There are also information posts at the airports. At the centers you can make hotel reservations, buy discount cards, get a map of Berlin, and arrange tours of the city and environs. Web Site: Berlin Tourist Information
Berlin has two main train stations: Zoologischer Garten and Ostbahnhof (where most high-speed trains dock in Berlin), plus four other stations in Lichtenberg, Spandau, Wannsee and Schönefeld. All train-stations are connected to other forms of public transport. The Zoologischer Garten station is near the Europa Center, where you'll find the main tourist office referenced above.
Summer temperatures are quite pleasant; daily temperatures range from 22-23 °C (72°F) but can go up to around 30°C (86°F). Winter highs are around 35°F. So, summer is the obvious choice, but Berlin is a cultural wonderland, so winter can be interesting as well. There are quite a few Christmas markets in Berlin, and New Years is a big deal at the Brandenburg Gate. For Berlin Weather and historical climate Charts, see Berlin travel weather.
The Berlin Welcome Card provides travel on all buses and trains within the A, B, and C fare zones in Berlin for one adult and up to three children below the age of fourteen for either 48 hours or 72 hours (see prices). Other discount tickets are also provided in a ticket book. Available at Tourist Info Centers, many hotels, and the S-Bahn offices.
Tourist Info Centers offer a 50% Ticket-Special for selected events on the day of the performance.
Berlin has one of Europe's premier public transportation systems, featuring S-Bahn and U-Bahn train lines (S-Suburban, U-Urban), buses, and East Berlin Trams. You can buy tickets at vending machines at the station. You must validate the ticket before you use it in the red or yellow machines--the fine for unvalidated or no ticket is 40 Euros. A Tageskarte or Day Ticket costs 5.80 Euros and allows unlimited travel on all systems till 3 in the morning.
Look for bohemian style crafty items, rather than designer goods in Berlin. The Kurfürstendamm and Tauentzienstraße are highly touted shopping areas. Visit Berlin lists a number of other shopping areas.
Berlin lodging is relatively inexpensive, considering the size of the city and its stature in the travel community. Find user-rated hotels in Berlin on Venere (book direct).
You might also find the apartment or house option more to your liking. HomeAway lists over 800 of such lodging options: Berlin Vacation Rentals (book direct).
Students and folks looking for extreme budget lodging might try a search on Hostelworld.
What do you think of first when you think of Berlin? The wall? Well, it's mosly gone. You can see a standing bit of the it on Niederkirchnerstrasse, next to the "Topography of Terror" exhibition center. You'll also want to see the Berlin Wall Museum.
Berlin is huge. Make sure you have a good map, some are always available from the tourist office. If you have an iOS or Android device with you, the Berlin Tourist Office offers a free app called Going local Berlin that will guide you along.
Zoologischer Garten - Zoological Gardens were opened in 1844 and are Germany's oldest and the world's largest. The Berlin Aquarium is adjacent. Hardenbergplatz 8, western downtown.
Brandenburger Tor - The Brandenburg Gate is the symbol of Berlin and the last remaining big piece of the Berlin wall system.
Museumsinsel - Museum Island fits between the rivers Spree and Kupfergraben. Museums on Museum Island include The National Gallery, The Old Museum (Altes Museum), The Pergamon Museum and The Bode Museum. The Pergamonmuseum is a must--and it's immense. You may need two days here. Mitte district. Find out about exhibitions in Berlin museums here.
The Tiergarten - Berlin's green heart is good for a walk. The 630 acre urban park began as a royal hunting reserve but landscape architect Peter Joseph Lenne thankfully transformed it into a beautiful city park in 1742.
The Reichstag - now home to Parliament once again after the torching of the building by a Dutch Communist in 1933 became the handy excuse that lead to handing Hitler dictatorial powers. The 1999 restoration added a glass dome that's become one of Berlin's main attractions as a view spot. Visit early in the morning to avoid the inevitable long lines, especially in summer.
A Note about Museums: German State Museums are generally a bargain for world-class exhibitions, costing from 6-8 Euros, and free on the four hours before closing on Thursday. A three-day museum ticket is also available; inquire at your first museum entrance. Berlin offers a very nice Museumsportal.
Of course, Berlin has a huge cultural scene. Modern art, cabaret and variety shows and one of the world's best philharmonic orchestras are all part of the nightlife. And no closing hours means you can sit at your favorite watering hole for well into the morning. And, for a landlocked city, there are plenty of beaches to check out.
Check out Berlin's Best Free Sites from About.com's Germany Expert.
One of the top rated Berlin coach tours on Viator is the Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp Memorial Walking Tour. The six hour tour includes three hours in the camp.
Viator offers everything from city walking or Segway tours to concerts and more. See Berlin Tours and Day Trips (book direct).
Need a good map? You can, of course, get one at your hotel or at the tourist bureau. If you like to have a map in your hand when you arrive at a destination but don't like folding maps--see our list of Crumpled City Maps--there's one for Berlin.
Learn German - It's always a good idea to learn some of the local language in the places you're going, especially the "polite" expressions and a few words pertaining to food and drink.
If you have an iOS device like iPad, iPhone or iPod Touch, you might like to be guided by a local. See Jeremy Gray's Berlin Essential Guide.
German Rail Passes - You can save money on longer rail journeys, but Railpasses aren't guaranteed to save you money, you'll have to plan your trip to use the pass on longer journeys, and pay in cash (or by credit card) for the short runs. Many night trains originate in Germany, so you might want to check one out as you leave Berlin and want to save the cost of a hotel that night.
Rent or Lease a Car? If you're going to Germany for three weeks or more, leasing may make more sense.
How Big is Europe? - Taking your own Grand Tour? How big is Europe compared to the US? Here's a map that shows you.
Driving Distances in Germany - Distances between the major cities in Germany.
Enjoy Berlin!
Berlin's public transportation is comprehensive and covers all corners of this sprawling city. It takes you over, under and through Berlin and connects travelers to greater Germany and beyond.
The all-inclusive system consists of U-Bahn, S-Bahn, buses, and trams. It's run primarily by the media-savvy Berliner Verkehrsbetriebe or BVG (pronounced beh-fow-gey). A single ticket grants access to an array of transport options and most people use several modes of public transport on any given day. Almost 1.5 million people ride Berlin public transport every day.
Though the system is well-organized, spacious, safe, and fairly punctual, it's massive and takes practice to understand. Use our complete guide to Berlin's public transportation to navigate the capital city.
The U-Bahn (underground) operates mostly below ground within Berlin city limits (AB zone). The first stations opened in 1902 and have operated consistently with periodic closures, improvements and expansions.
An illuminated "U" marks the entrance with the station name in a variety of traditional scripts. Enter the platform and once you have a ticket (bought from a machine on the platform or BVG distributor), stamp it and board your U-Bahn.
Maps are present on the platform, with electronic boards notifying travelers of the next trains and estimated arrival.
Lines on Berlin's U-Bahn
The U-Bahn contains over 170 stations in 10 lines, including the famed U2 line (not associated with the band). The bright yellow cars and colorful stations provide plenty of material for instagram-lovers.
Major transfer hubs include Alexanderplatz, Nollendorfplatz, Zoologisher Garten, and Friedrichstrasse.
Hours of Operation for Berlin's U-Bahn
Berlin's U-Bahn runs from 5:00 a.m. till 1:00 a.m. on weekdays. On weekends and public holidays there is 24 hour service with reduced frequency.
It runs every 3 to 5 minutes within the city center. The U-Bahn runs every 10 to 20 minutes after 8 p.m. with night buses taking over at night.
The city's S-Bahn or Stadtbahn (city train) is the local rail which runs primarily above ground. Distance between stations is greater than the U-Bahn and it is the quickest way to travel the city and to the outskirts like Potsdam and Wannsee. Unlike most of Berlin's transport, the S-Bahn is operated by Deutsche Bahn (German rail company). The same tickets offer access to the S-Bahn as the rest of Berlin's public transport.
S-Bahn stations can be identified by the green and white "S" symbol. Enter the platform without barrier and once you have a ticket, stamp it and board the S-Bahn. Maps are available on the platform and electronic boards provide info on the next arrival.
Important Lines on Berlin's S-Bahn
The S-Bahn covers 15 lines with almost 170 train stations.
Hours of Operation for Berlin's S-Bahn
During the week, the S-Bahn runs from 4:30 a.m. until 1:30 a.m. On weekends and holidays it runs 24 hours a day.
Trains run at least every 10 minutes, with frequency slowing to 10 and 20 minutes outside of peak hours and every 30 minutes at night.
Berlin's buses add even greater coverage to the city's already impressive network. Though a slower mode of transport, Berlin buses minimize walking in this rambling city. They can also be a great way to tour the city as many travel right by top sights and provide exceptional views from their double-decker levels. Buses are more common in former West Berlin as they "modernized" by tearing out earlier tram lines.
Bus stops are marked by a circular sign with a green "H". They often have a small shelter and electronic sign updating on arrivals, as well as a posted regular schedules and routes. Tickets are purchased from machines at S- or U-Bahns, BVG ticket-sellers, or directly from bus drivers. If you have an undated ticket, stamp it with the machine near the entrance.
Berlin's Most Important Bus Lines
There are more than 350 routes and over 2,634 bus stops.
Mostly in former East Berlin, trams travel at street-level, winding their way throughout the city. Tickets can be purchased beforehand or at machines on the train.
MetroNetz, marked with a "M", offer higher frequency service (about every 10 minutes) and operate 24 hours a day. At night, trams run every 30 minutes.
Berlin's Most Important Tram Lines
There are over 20 tram lines with 377 stops in the city. MetroTrams include:
Regular tickets cost 2.80 euros and allow for travel on all forms of transport. They are valid for 2 hours with unlimited transfers in one direction. For example, you can travel around the city on a single ticket for 120 minutes from the time the ticket was stamped/purchased, but you can't go in one direction then come back the same way. Children under 6 do not need tickets and reduced fare is available for children 6 to 14.
Fares are subject to length of your trip and which zones you travel. The city is divided into zones A, B, and C. Most of the city is in the A and B zone. A is inside the ringbahn, B just outside, and C up to 15 kilometers (9 miles) around Berlin. Regular tickets include the A and B zone, but you can buy ABC tickets (usually only necessary if you are going to Schönefeld Airport or Potsdam). You can also buy an AB pass and get a C extension if you are taking a single trip to the C zone.
Ticket machines are available on U & S-Bahn platforms, can be purchased in small shops with a "BVG" signs, buses, or with the BVG app. (Tickets from the app should be purchased before boarding transport.)
You must be in possession of a valid ticket on public transport and it's largely on the honor system. However, you need to show a ticket when entering buses and when ticket controllers — both uniformed and plain clothes — ask to see your ticket by saying "Fahrscheine, bitte" (Ticket, please). If caught without a ticket, you are subject to a 60 euro fine and controllers are infamously unsympathetic.
Use the BVG website to plan your trip and find real-time departure/arrival information.
For more ticket options, refer to the BVG's ticket site.
Entrance to the U-Bahn and S-Bahn is barrier-free and escalators and elevators service many stations - but not all. Maps indicate accessibility.
Newer trains offer level-entry boarding with a gap of no more than 2 inches between train and platform. A ramp (manually set-up by the conductor) can be provided. Look for doors marked with wheelchairs/strollers to mark the best cars for wheeled travelers (for example, second door on the bus).
BVG offers information for riders with disabilities.
Hotels in Berlin range from budget hostels, and hip boutiques, to luxury hotels. My top-picks for the best hotels in Berlin include accommodations for every taste and budget, starting with charming 1-star guesthouses and going all the way up to elegant 5-star hotels in Berlin.
The 1-star Pension Funk combines true Berlin character, excellent rates and a great location: Situated in Charlottenburg, in a side street of Berlin's premier shopping mile "Kudamm", this turn of the century guesthouse once was the home of silent movie star Asta Nielsen. The charm of Berlin’s Roaring Twenties has been preserved with decorative ceilings and Art Nouveau windows; the old-fashioned rooms are adorned with floral wall paper, stout furniture, and oriental carpets.As of 2019, rooms start at 34 Euros.
Want to save money but still travel in style? Then Motel One is the right choice for you. The rooms of this 2-star "Boutique Motel" are small, but well designed and very functional. They captivate through their modern style; cream, chocolate and turquoise colors compliment brick, wood, and leather. You'll find Motel One in ten different locations throughout Berlin.As of 2019, rooms start at 72 Euros in 2019.
The small 3-star Hotel Kastanienhof lies in the center of happening Prenzlauer Berg; although it is not as hip as the surrounding bars, cafes, and restaurants, it offers great value and a warm family feel. Its simply furnished, no-frills rooms are clean and comfortable, and the helpful staff knows all about the neighborhood.As of 2019, rooms start at 72 Euros.
The new Berlin Circus Hotel, just opposite of its little brother, the Circus Hostel, features guest rooms, suites, and even rental apartments at top rates. Located in eclectic “Mitte”, the wooden-floored rooms of this 3-star hotel are stylish and comfy. Guests also rave about the fantastic services, from bike, car and segway rental, to a babysitter service and free use of computers and iPods loaded with Berlin music. The Circus staff goes out of its way to make you feel at home in Berlin.As of 2019, rooms start at 79 Euros.
The Park Inn Hotel has 1028 rooms, 37 floors, and 4 stars; it is located in the center of Alexanderplatz, a stone’s throw away from the iconic Berlin TV Tower. Many Berlin sights are within walking distance, and its excellent access to public transportation makes the Park Inn a favorite for business travelers.The rooms feature flat screen TVs, marbled bathrooms, heated floors, and panoramic views (ask for a room with a vista of the TV tower). In the Park Inn, there are three restaurants, two bars, a beer garden, a spa and a casino, which is located on the top floor.As of 2019, rooms start at 85 Euros.
Set on a bustling street just a few steps away from Hackescher Markt, this 4-star hotel in a historic townhouse from 1845 has a wonderful atmosphere; quiet and romantic. Its cozy rooms are individually decorated and surround a lush courtyard garden, the green gem of the hotel. In summer, you can enjoy your breakfast with home-baked bread in the garden.If you haven't guessed already, the name of the "Honigmond Hotel" translates directly to "Honeymoon Hotel".Rooms start at 105 Euros.
You'll find the 4-star Hotel Bleibtreu, located in a patrician townhouse from the 19th century, in a leafy side street of Berlin’s shopping district “Kudamm”. On the ground floor, there is a deli, an espresso bar and a flower shop, which draws in locals and travelers alike.
The hotel offers wellness treatments, reflexology massages, and acupuncture. You can prolong the soothing effects in your tranquil room, designed with natural, untreated materials and awash in warm and light colors. Great extra: There is a free mini bar in every room.As of 2019, rooms start at 93 Euros.
The Mandala Hotel, in the center of Potsdamer Platz, is a chic 5-star Boutique Hotel. Its stylish suites are purist and spacious, offering high functional design.The on site restaurant Facil is one of the best restaurants in town.As of 2019, rooms start at 315 Euro.
Berlin’s latest addition to luxury hotels, the 5-star Hotel de Rome, opened its grand doors in 2006 on the Boulevard "Unter den Linden", in the historic heart of Berlin. Hotel de Rome is housed in a former bank building from the 19th century, and the original vault of the bank is now an underground swimming pool.The hotel features first-rate rooms with century-high ceilings, a full-service spa, gym, restaurant, and a rooftop terrace.Rooms start at 420 Euros.
 Courtesy of Hotel Adlon Kempinski
Hotel Adlon, just opposite of the Brandenburg Gate, is not only the grand dame of Berlin’s luxury hotels, but also an iconic landmark of the German capital; presidents and celebrities from all over the world stay in its elegant, old-world charm rooms. The 5-star Hotel Adlon offers lavish spa and gym facilities, a two Michelin-starred restaurant with French cuisine, and unparalleled service.Rooms start at 490 Euros.
Berlin is a city constantly on the go, and the food scene reflects that. There are sausage vendors at Alexanderplatz, döner kebabs on every corner, and the chance to eat well anytime of the day.
However, it's not all street food. There are also the meat and potato plates that require a sit-down with gabel (fork) and messer (knife). These northern foods are a bit different than the stereotypical Bavarian versions of German food people usually picture, but they deliver on taste and authenticity. Whether you eat a modernized interpretation at a Michelin star restaurant or in a traditional Berlin setting, these are the foods you have to try in Berlin.
You can eat pretzels anywhere in Germany. Read up on the food you have to try in Berlin and eat your way through the city from eisbein to döner to pfannkuchen.
Döner kebab, the street food you can find just about everywhere, started in Berlin. This crossover between Turkish immigrants and German palates is a meal symbolic of the multicultural nature of Berlin.
If you have never had one before, you will be drawn in by the massive cones of meat in the window. Upon ordering, the spit is moved closer to the heat and shaved off in salty strips. The meat is then placed in a hearty triangle of Turkish bread with a generous helping of salat (salad) and soße (sauce).
If you aren't in the mood for döner or want to experiment with the wide variety of Turkish food, try köfte, börek, or lahmacun, or a little bit of everything with a Turkish teller (Turkish plate).
Where to Eat Döner Kebab in Berlin
Everyone has their favorite döner stand, usually the most convenient location between your favorite bar and home.
If you want the best, however, the Berlin-based institution of Imren Grill is worth seeking out. Imren's meat is hand-laid and accompanied by house-made sauces. 
An East German version of meatballs, Königsberger Klopse are named after the Prussian capital of Königsberg (now Kaliningrad). The dish outlived its namesake as the city was destroyed by Allied bombings and taken by the Russians.
Any reference to Königsberg was forbidden under DDR rule and it was renamed kochklöpse by the party, although the people preferred the name revanchistenklöpse (revisionist meatballs).
It regained its original name after the fall of the DDR and is still popular today. The meatballs come covered in a creamy sauce with capers and lemon, served with boiled potatoes.
Where to Eat Königsberger Klopse in Berlin
This filling meal is served at many traditional restaurants in and around Berlin. Try the authentic dish in Max und Moritz in Kreuzberg, much the same since 1902.
Though the origin story floats somewhere between Hamburg and Berlin and this sausage dish can be enjoyed anywhere in the country, currywurst is truly unmissable in the hauptstadt (capital).
Bratwurst is sliced and served atop pommes (french fries),  doused in curry ketchup topped with a sprinkle of curry powder. It is almost always delivered with a dainty plastic fork and you can order it mit oder ohne (with or without) skin. 
Where to Eat Currywurst in Berlin
Around 800 million currywurst are sold in Germany each year. The best place to order it in Berlin is the classic Konnopke's Imbiss under the U2 in Prenzlauer Berg. They have been serving this exclusively since 1930.
A colossal plate of pork knuckle is one of those quintessential images of German food, though the roasted Bavarian version of schweinshaxe is more popular.
The northern version is eisbein, pickled ham hock. Just as impressive on a plate, it is cured and boiled so rather than crackling skin it is ridiculously juicy. Eisbein is paired with sauerkraut and erbspüree (pureed peas) and — of course — potatoes.
Where to Eat Eisbein in Berlin
Zur Letzten Instanz dates all the way back to 1621 and even Napoleon ate here. Eisbein tastes best in the classic environment of wood paneling and intricate tiles.
Blutwurst (blood sausage) has an unappetizing reputation, but it is a definitive and delicious Berlin food. 
The East German version of Tote Oma (dead grandma) is served loose and hot, usually alongside sauerkraut and potatoes. In the Spreewald just outside of Berlin, the version is called grützwurst which is mixed with linseed oil and comes with Sorbian sauerkraut.
Where to Eat Blutwurst in Berlin
To try typical Berlin blutwurst, Wilhelm Hoeck 1892 in sophisticated Charlottenburg provides the right environment. Approved by old-school locals and knowledgeable foodies like the late Anthony Bourdain, it is sure to change the mind of skeptical eaters.
Confusingly, this doughnut is known as a berliner outside of the city and was the subject of the well-known gaffe by JFK. But in Berlin, it is strictly a Berliner pfannkuchen.
Deep-fried and coated in sugar, it is typically filled with sweet jam. Eaten throughout the year, it is part of a Silvester (New Year’s Eve) tradition where one doughnut in the bunch will be filled with senf (mustard) and is a sign of good luck. 
Where to Eat Pfannkuche in Berlin
Visitors can find a Berliner pfannkuchen at any bäckerei (bakery), but try a classic like Bäckerei Siebert in Prenzlauer Berg. And it wouldn't be Berlin without a hipster vegan version available at trendy Brammibal’s.
Ketwurst is a product of divided Berlin from the 1970s. An East Berlin favorite and product of the DDR, its name comes from combining ketchup and wurst (sausage).
This perfect food-on-the-go consists of a juicy bockwurst plunked into a fluffy hot dog role and covered in ketchup.
Where to Eat Ketwurst in Berlin
Once available everywhere in the city, there are only a few places you can find it today. Try the original location, Alain Snack, on Schönhauser Allee.
Berliner Weisse is the ideal summer drink. Composed of a light, white beer, it is flavored with a pump of red himbeer (raspberry) or green waldmeister (woodruff) syrup. It is colorful and low in alcohol and perfect for those early visits to the biergarten.
Where to Drink Berliner Weiße in Berlin
Prater Biergarten is the city's oldest and one of the most popular. Simple bench seating under leafy chestnut trees make for an idyllic environment for a sunny afternoon.
Few things look more appetizing than a row of roasting chicken. Hungry visitors can buy a halbes (half) or a whole, paired with fries and a salad with pickled vegetables. The best versions are naturally moist, but come with an additional sauce like knoblauch (garlic).
Where to Eat Hähnchen in Berlin
The basic Hühnerhaus 36 stand outside the entrance of Görlitzer Park is a local favorite. It has inspired a devout following, expat music videos, and a sit-down restaurant across the street.
We're back to sausage with a Berlin foodie must-do.
When you think of German sausage, you're probably thinking of a bratwurst. Traditionally made from pork, people have been eating it straight off the grill since 1313.
Where to Get a Bratwurst in Berlin
Bratwurst is the most popular sausage throughout Germany, but few things are more Berlin than buying one in the city's busiest square. Everyone eventually has to go through Alexanderplatz and you will see grillwalkers intermixed with the thousands of people.
These vendors wear their bright orange grills at hip level, slinging 1.80 euros worth of bratwurst on a roll (brötchen) with your choice of mustard and/or ketchup. Start with a bite of pure sausage — hanging out both ends — and work your way to the delectable center. 
If you're feeling adventurous, you might want to try Leberwurst.
Traveling to Berlin in summer? Lucky you!
Summer is Berlin's best season. Outdoor cafes, parks, pools, beach bars, and lake fronts are all packed. Berliners even seem to be a bit happier and friendlier when the sun comes out.
Don’t get me wrong – Berlin in winter is enchanting (with no less than 60 Christmas markets), but it’s the summer that transforms the city and brings out the best in the German capital. Here’s how to have a fantastic summer in the city.
This is one of the most unique swimming pools in all of Germany: Badeschiff, a floating pool, was created from a huge cargo container and is now moored in Berlin's River Spree. An open-air pool, it gets packed with hip Berliners who sun in the sand all day then party at the surrounding nightclubs til the early morn. 
What better place to spend a balmy evening than in one of Berlin’s bustling beer gardens. The oldest one, dating back to 1837, is the Prater Beer Garden on Kastanienalle. Shaded by giant chestnut trees, guests sit on wooden benches and enjoy fresh-grilled wurst, potatoes salad, and pickled cucumber with home-brewed Prater beer.
Berlin isn't anywhere near the ocean, but that doesn’t mean you’ll have to do without a beach. Berliners get their tan on in the many man-made urban beaches along the banks of the river spree, which runs through Berlin’s city center. There is even imported sand and plenty of sun chairs.
The booze also flows as most of these are open-air bars. If you prefer to be more active in your sunning, look for one of the many beach volleyball courts.
If you want to actually get in the water, try Berlin's best swimming beaches. Forget the urban chaos with the many lakes that dot the city and the land beyond. 
For example, don't miss easily reachable Schlachtensee where you can swim beneath the shady trees in the calm, cool water, or popular Wannsee with its massive sandy shores, or crystal-clear Liepnitzsee with its island, or sprawling Müggelsee, the largest lake in the German capital.
Don’t spend a long summer night in a stuffy movie theater – watch the latest movies in a Freiluftkino under the stars.
Between May and September, Berlin’s popular open-air cinemas open up in parks or in front of museums or outside of popular clubs. One of the best is in Volkspark Friedrichshain which presents everything from schlocky thrillers to smart independent films. You can sit on benches or reline on the lawn and most movies are presented in original language.
Whether you are looking for a romantic getaway or a fun family outing, travel by houseboat offers a unique sightseeing adventure. A trip on one of the rental houseboats, Wasserkutsche, is an unforgettable way to see Berlin from a different perspective.
The colorful houseboats run with an environmentally friendly electric motor and don’t go faster then 6 miles per hour – no license or boating experience required. 
Berlin's Tiergarten used to be the hunting grounds for the Prussian kings, before it was transformed into the city's largest park in the 18th century. Today, the green heart of Berlin is bordered by the Reichstag, the Brandenburg Gate, Potsdamer Platz, and Berlin's Zoo. On more than 600 acres, you can enjoy leafy paths, small creeks, open-air cafes, and lawns (some of them permit nude sunbathing).
A wonderful place to kick back is Cafe am Neuen See, a beer garden on the edge of a small lake, from where you can also rent paddle boats.
One of the best ways to get around Berlin is by bike. The city has around 400 miles of bike paths, and it’s such a fun and safe way to explore Berlin on two wheels.There are many bike rental stations in Berlin, but one of the most recommended ones is Fahrradstation with 6 locations throughout Berlin.
If you want to take a guided bike tour, check out Fat Tire Bike Tours, which offers everything from general sightseeing tours to historic tours by bike.
You can even get weird with it with 3 unusual Berlin bike tours, like the Bachelor party favorite, the Beer Bike.
There are countless events during the summer months in Berlin. The summer season starts with the colorful Carnival of Cultures, which celebrates the multicultural spirit of Germany’s capital. The highlight of the four-day open-air festival is the street parade with 4,500 performers in authentic costumes, elaborately decorated floats, and musicians from over 70 different countries dance through the streets of Berlin.
After that, there is Fete de la Musique, Christopher Street Day (Pride), Berlin International Beer Festival...and more.
If you're planning a trip to Berlin, use this guide to find the top attractions to visit during your stay—with beautiful parks, historic sights, markets, and museums, you'll find plenty to fill up your itinerary. 
 Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
One of Berlin most iconic landmarks is the Brandenburg Gate  (Brandenburger Tor). In the course of German history, the Brandenburg Gate has played many different roles. It reflects the country's turbulent past and its peaceful achievements like no other landmark in Germany.
During the Cold War, the Brandenburg Gate stood between East and West Berlin and was the sad symbol for the division of the city and Germany. 
When the wall fell in 1989 and Germany was reunited, the Brandenburg Gate became a symbol for untied Germany.
 Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
The Reichstag in Berlin is the traditional seat of the German Parliament. A fire here in 1933 allowed Hitler to claim emergency powers, leading to his dictatorship. It was also here his empire collapsed as the Russians raised a flag above its ruined dome on May 2nd, 1945.
When the historic building was remodeled in the 1990s, it was adorned with a modern glass. Visitors can ride up to the top of the building and look down through the dome to literally watch politics in motion. It also offers a stunning view of the Berlin skyline.
The best time to visit the Reichstag is in the late afternoon or evening: The lines are usually shorter, and the view from the glass dome at sunset is spectacular. It is necessary to book your free visit ahead of time, but this can easily be done online.
The Berlin Reichstag is also the only parliamentary building in the world that features a public restaurant, Restaurant Kaefer. This elegant eatery and its roofgarten are located on the top of the Reichstag, offering breakfast, lunch and dinner at reasonable prices – breathtaking views included.
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
Berlin's Museum Island is home to five world-class museums which cover everything from the famous bust of Egyptian Queen Nefertiti to European paintings from the 19th century. This unique ensemble of museums and traditional buildings on the small island in the river Spree is even a UNESCO World Heritage site.
Don’t miss the Pergamon Museum, which houses the Collection of Classical Antiquities, the Museum of the Ancient Near East, and the Museum of Islamic Art. The highlights of the Pergamon Museum are the original-sized reconstructions of archaeological buildings: Pergamon Altar (closed for renovations until 2023), Market Gate of Miletus and the Gate of Ishtar. These exceptional artifacts make it one of the most visited museums in Germany.
The Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe is one of Germany’s most impressive and moving monuments to the Holocaust. The architect Peter Eisenmann designed this massive sculpture park, which is laid out on a 4.7 acre site between Potsdamer Platz, Tiergarten and the Brandenburg Gate. The centerpiece of the memorial is the “Field of Stelae”, covered with more than 2,500 geometrically arranged concrete pillars.
You can enter and walk through the unevenly sloping field from all four sides and wander through the strong columns, all slightly different in size, evoke a disorienting, wave-like feeling that you can only experience when you make your way through this gray forest of concrete. The free underground museum holds the names of all known Jewish Holocaust victims.
Berlin's East Side Gallery is the longest remaining section of the Berlin Wall.  After the wall fell in 1989, hundreds of artists from around the world, among them Keith Haring, came to Berlin to transform the grim and gray wall into a piece of art. They covered the east side of the former border, which had been untouchable up to then, with more than 100 paintings and turned the into the largest open-air gallery in the world.
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
Stroll down the grand boulevard of Unter den Linden in the historic heart of Berlin which stretches from Museum Island to the Brandenburg Gate. The street is lined on both sides by noteworthy historical statues and buildings, like Humboldt University, State Opera, State Library, German Museum of History and embassies.
Berlin’s Jewish Museum chronicles Jewish history and culture in Germany from the Middle Ages to present-day. The extensive exhibition is great - but it is mostly the building, designed by Daniel Libeskind, which leaves a lasting impression on its visitors. The striking architecture is defined by a bold zigzag design, underground tunnels connecting the three wings, irregularly shaped windows, and ‘voids’, empty spaces stretching the full height of the building - the architecture makes palpable the feelings of those who were exiled and lost.
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
Berlin’s urban heart beats at Hackescher Markt, an area brimming with cafes, cool shops, and art galleries. Start at Hackesche Hoefe, an ensemble of historic courtyards, which is the largest enclosed courtyard area in Germany. They are filled with one-off shops, theaters and Kinos (cinemas).
The area is becoming increasingly commercial and tour groups frequently make their way through the narrow alleyways, but it remains a charming and historic site. Look for lesser-known attractions like the tiny Museum Blindenwerkstatt Otto Weidt which wages secret opposition to the Nazi party or the art shop above Kino Central.
For some more stylish retail therapy, check out the surrounding streets Weinmeisterstrasse, Alte Schoenhauser Strasse and Rosenthaler Strasse - all home to cool boutiques with local designer fashion, books, accessories, vintage, jewelry and shoes.
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy 
Berlin's Tiergarten used to be the hunting grounds for the Prussian kings, before it was transformed into the city's largest park in the 18th century. Today, the green heart of Berlin is bordered by the Reichstag and the Brandenburg Gate on the eastern side, Potsdamer Platz and the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe on the southeastern edge, Berlin's Zoo in the west, and Bellevue Palace, residence of the German President in Berlin on the northern rim of the park.
On 600 acres, you can enjoy leafy paths, small creeks, open-air cafes and biergartens. In the center of the park, you’ll find the golden Victory Column, a 230 feet high monument commemorating Prussia’s victory over France in 1871.
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
The slender Victory Column in the midst of Berlin’s park Tiergarten is known as the Siegessäule, or less formally "Golden Else" or "chick on a stick". Berlin's incredibly long boulevards mean you can see her from miles away and she is a glimmering symbol for the city.
To see out from this view point, you have to climb 285 steep stairs to reach the open-air viewing platform which is set right below the giant goddess – but you’ll be rewarded with a breathtaking vista of the surrounding park and Berlin.
Berlin is the most visited city and capital of Germany, as well as the third most visited place in Europe. A fast growing tourist destination, it fascinates young and old, history buffs and art lovers, architecture aficionados and underground clubbers alike. Wherever you go, you experience the pulsating life of Berlin in its over 170 museums and art galleries, 300 clubs and 7,000 bars and restaurants — many of which are open around the clock.
With over 3.5 million inhabitants in the twelve distinct Bezirke (districts), visitors are struck by the size and variety of the city. Architectural styles range from palaces to the remnants of socialist buildings to modern skyscrapers and its citizens are wildly diverse with its ever-changing populace encompassing over 600,000 foreigners.
Plan your trip to the fascinating city of Berlin.
Berlin has some of the country's top attractions from historic sites like Brandenburger Tor and its historic surroundings, East Side Gallery, to its world-class clubbing scene.
Explore more of the best of Berlin with our full-length articles on the best things to do in Berlin, free things to do in Berlin, and Berlin with kids.
The German food favorites of bratwurst, schnitzel, and spätzle can all be found here, but don't miss out on Berlin specific dishes. Berlin street foods like döner kebab and currywurst are elevated to another level and the best international and vegetarian food in the country is available in the capital.
Berlin is not only a typical German beer city, it is also the birthplace of German craft beer. Visit the city's best individual brewers, as well as sampling the many fine German wines and specialty mixed drinks at unique bars across the city.
Eat your way though the best restaurants in Berlin with our guide to Berlin street food, East German restaurants, and Berlin's best vegetarian restaurants. 
As a top destination in Germany, there are a wide array of accommodation options in Berlin from 5-star hotels to funky hostels. While many people choose to stay in the center in Mitte, the city's superb public transport means everywhere is easily accessible and staying in trendy neighborhoods like Kreuzberg, Neukölln, and Prenzlauer Berg offer a local's view of the city. Also take note that there has been a crackdown on Airbnbs in Berlin and these are less available as they once were.
Explore the different Berlin neighborhoods where you might stay and our recommendations on the best hotels in the city as well as Berlin's most unique accommodations.
Frankfurt has the busiest airport in the country while Berlin's two small international airports struggle to keep up with capacity.
Their small size does make them easy to navigate and can be reached by public transport to the rest of the city, with plenty of options for taxis or car rental for the auto obsessed. The city is also well-connected by train to the rest of Germany as well as greater Europe. Deutsche-Bahn, the national railway, offers fast and easy service as well as occasional discounts, or you can travel by bus on a number of providers for bargain-basements prices and decent comfort levels.
Berlin has a well-earned reputation as a tough city, but the people – perhaps unfairly — are also known as being rude. Gritty and industrial like the city itself, visitors should know the people's bark is worse than its bite. Berlin is very safe for such a major city with the main concern being petty crime and theft.
When eating out or engaging in any kind of customer service, prepare for a lower standard than that of North America. That said, you should also tip at lower levels (around 10 percent). Also know that dining out is usually a leisurely experience where there really is no rush. When you are ready to pay, ask for "Die Rechnung, bitte" (the check, please).
There is no reason to break the bank when visiting Berlin. The city is famously inexpensive and some of its top attractions and experiences come free of charge.
Learn more about the cheapest ways to have fun by reading up on the best free things to do in Berlin.
Berlin's title as the UNESCO’s "City of Design" extends well beyond its world-class museums and onto the street. For a city that has often faced division and oppression, street art was a way for everyday people to speak out. In fact, Berlin just opened its first street art museum to educate locals and visitors about this particular kind of art.
Street art has become a credible form of expression, and Berlin has a thriving scene of international contributors. Many of the world's top artists have contributed to the landscape, changing the ever-evolving face of Berlin.
And as fast as new pieces go up, old pieces are covered up, weathered beyond recognition, vandalized, or even removed by the artist (like BLU and JR's legendary gold-bedecked figures showing "east side" and "west side" at Curvybrache). Whether they have put up small stickers, medium stencils, or massive murals, a tour of Berlin's best street art reveals a the story of the city.
While every inch of Berlin seems to be marked with some kind of graffiti, certain areas are richer in quality street art. Check out Berlin's 10 best street art pieces mentioned, and then continue exploring with a visit to these locations for more.
There are also many tour options for alternative Berlin and tours focused exclusively on Berlin's street art to expand your understanding.
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
The Cosmonaut is a distinctive piece in Kreuzberg by Victor Ash. It has graced this wall since 2007 and is one of the most popular pieces in Berlin. Fawning photographers can be seen here taking a snap day or night. 
The mural has been called the world's largest stencil, but it was actually painted with black paint (look for the drips) using a grid and painstakingly put together square by square.
When it was first painted, a nearby flagpole cast a shadow that drifted across the scene eventually ending in the Cosmonaut’s hand. He claims this land, much like the astronauts involved in the space race between the USSR and America that inspired the French artist.
Where: Mariannenstrasse. The closest UBahn is Kottbusser Tor on the U1.
The longest remaining stretch of the Berlin Wall is a top Berlin attraction and one of the first major public canvases for urban artists. Once a divider, it is now a major draw and a platform for street art from 118 well-recognized International artists.
The original pieces were put up shortly after the fall of the wall in 1990. The work has been replenished throughout the years, but the most famous sections remain. For example, "My God, Help Me to Survive This Deadly Love," more commonly known as the "Fraternal Kiss" by Dmitri Vrubel, still gets stares. The image shows Soviet Leonid Brezhnev and East German President, Erich Honecker, locked in a passionate kiss. Another beloved piece is Thierry Noir’s cartoon faces which now also adorn tourist knick-knacks.
Besides these well-recognized pieces, the backside of the Gallery (on the side of the Spree) has become open ground for new graffiti. Often just amateur tagging, it shows this is still the greatest street art galley in the world.
Where: Located between the banks of the River Spree and Mühlenstrasse in Friedrichshain. The closest stations are Ostbahnhof or Warschauerstrasse.
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
Famed Italian street artist BLU has been creating unique street art since 1999 from the West Bank to Peru. He is responsible for this eye-catching piece just off the Oberbaumbrücke. Sometimes called  Leviathan or Backjump, it is one of the most beloved pieces in the city.
With fabulous views on either side of the bridge, it's easy to miss it. But for those that tilt their head slightly up (or catch a glimpse as they roar by on the UBahn), it is one of the most identifiable pieces in Berlin.
This full-wall mural is a surreal image of one large pink figure composed of hundreds of interlocking, writhing bodies. In its hand one white figure is being examined, or perhaps preparing to be eaten. 
Where: On the Kruezberg side of Oberbaumbrücke, just before you continue on Falckensteinstrasse. The closest UBahn (subway) is U1 at Schlesisches Tor or across the river in Friedrichshain at Warschauer Strasse, or the S-Bahn 5 or 7 at Warschauer Strasse.
This large-scale mural is typical of Belgian artist ROA. He often features native wild animals in an urban setting, often in a state of decay.
This piece was commissioned by Skalitzers Contemporary Art in 2011. Drawn with aerosol spray cans in a black, white and gray, this is a striking image of hanging game. It fits with his usual themes of the temporary nature of life, and also of street art.
Where: Corner of Oranienstraße and Manteuffelstraße. The closest UBahn is Görlitzer on the U1.
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
Well-known French street artist, JR, only spent a month in Berlin in 2013 but he left quite an impression. His "Wrinkles of the City" series is on 15 buildings in central Berlin and is part of an ongoing project that appears in cities around the world.
The artist's work first appeared in Paris where he plastered paste-ups of  young Parisians from the projects in the city's poshest areas for "Portraits of a Generation." His works seeks to bring people together and make the world a better place, earning him the prestigious TED Prize in 2011.
"Wrinkles of the City" began in 2008 in Cartagena, Spain. In addition to Berlin, it expands into Havana, Shanghai, Los Angeles, and Istanbul. The work showcases each city's elderly citizens in contrast to our "youth-obsessed, progress-driven world".
The 15 pieces in Berlin paired elderly Berliners' close-up portraits with locations significant to their personal experience and historic events such as the location of the Berlin Wall, areas affected by the iron curtain, and many of the other events that marred the city's history. JR utilized the often crumbling facades of the buildings to emphasize features like the wrinkles of his subjects.
Where: Some of the series has been lost as the city continues to transform. The most intact pieces can be found at:
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
This gallery wall adorns the side of one the city's best independent movie theaters. Stickers, stencils, and one-of-a-kind pieces are routinely put-up, pulled-down, and reapplied in a never-ending cycle.
The kino (cinema) is located at the busy corner of Boxhagener and Niederbarnimstrasse, quintessential Friedrichshain. There is a cafe that spills out in front of the cinema and people-watching is at its finest. Make note as the hordes of people stop to admire the latest street art.
Where: Boxhagener Strasse 107. The closest UBahns are Frankfurter Tor and Samariterstraße on the U5.
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
The simply titled "Yellow Man" is a comical piece. Created at an intersection of streets in June 2014, you can't miss this odd figure and de facto symbol for the neighborhood.
The artist Os Gemeos actually consists of two street artists. They are Brazilian twins Otavio and Gustavo Pandolfo and their joint name means "the twins." The genderless figure is from a shared dream of yellow creatures.
Where: Schlesisches Tor/Oppelner Strasse. The closest UBahn is Schlesisches Tor.
Another work by BLU, this cynical depiction of economy and politics shows the fall of the Berlin Wall and the rise of the euro. This straight-forward piece offers harsh criticism of the changing climate in Germany and Europe.
Where: Köpenickerstrasse in Kreuzberg. The closest SBahn is Ostbahnhof.
Three world leaders appear on this wall in a surprising burst of neon watercolor. Former US president Barack Obama, long-reigning German Chancellor Angela Merkel, and Russian president Vladimir Putin are in the classic Buddhist pose of the three wise monkeys—see no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil. (A difficult proposal for politicians no matter the country.)
Put up in 2014 while Obama was still in office (the other two remain in power), it still gets instagrammers and selfie-takers regularly.
Where: Ritterstraße 12. The closest UBahn is Mortizplatz.
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
Two of the last remaining squats in the city, Rigaer Strasse 83 and 94 provide an ever-changing platform for political commentary.
Banners call out for social change, and bold splashes of paint showing smiley faces and cartoon birds mark these buildings as different from their neighbors. While there is not one piece of street art to look for, the whole buildings are representative of what this rapidly gentrifying neighborhood once was. 
Often the site of police crackdowns, this is also the center for community projects and activism. Fischladen is an anarchist bar at the base of Rigaerstrasse 83 and a meeting point for leftist forces. And though clashes with authority have been violent in the past, most actions are premeditated and civil nowadays.
Where: Rigaer Straße 83 & 94, 10247 Berlin. The closest UBahn is on the U5 at Samariterstraße.
Berlin is a sprawling city and it can be hard to get your head around. So it makes sense, that many tourists to Berlin can spend several days in the city without leaving Mitte, Berlin's central neighborhood.
The reality is, Berlin is divided into 12 different administrative districts. These districts, or Bezirk, are further broken down into Kiez. Even within the Kiez, areas are further split into street specific areas like Kollwitzkiez and Bergmannkiez—each with their own personality. The city arose through uniting many small villages and areas retain their village feel within the city environment.
Adding to the confusion, these areas are occasionally redrawn. Friedrichshain and Kreuzberg, distinct neighboring Kiez, have recently been joined together. Wedding, with its own strong reputation, is now within Mitte which has a very different vibe. And the line that divided the city has never really disappeared—a brick line still traces the path of the Berlin Wall. Less tangibly, Kiez are still distinguished as being in the East and the West and have traits passed down from that time. While the district of Mitte is in the center of the city, there were once two centers of Berlin—in the west around Zoologischer Garten and in the east around Alexanderplatz. That division is still felt.
This means that street to street neighborhoods can have a different personality—and price tag. Central areas of Mitte can be pricey, as can trendy locations like Schlesisches Tor in Kreuzberg and around Kollwitzplatz in Prenzlauer Berg. This ever-changing atmosphere is also accelerated by the rapid gentrification that sometimes seem it will devour a city. Just try using google street view to "see" the city. That empty lot? Multi-story hotel now. That rundown flower shop? Hipster bar. That späti (late-night convenience store)? Different späti...
The good news is that there is a place for everyone in Berlin. This guide to every Berlin neighborhood you need to know will help plan a trip, pick which areas to visit and find a hotel or apartment.
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
Mitte literally translates to "middle" and that is (basically) where it lies. This district is plopped as close to center as possible for the squiggly line mess that is a map of Berlin.
Packed full of must-see sights from Brandenburger Tor to the Reichstag, Mitte is a necessary stop for anyone traveling through or to Berlin. However, it is not recommended to stay in central Mitte. Berlin's transportation system is excellent, and staying in another Kiez can better acquaint you with the multiple facets of the city and the people who live there (plus some actual grocery stores).
Central Mitte was once the heart of East Berlin and besides monuments, it holds loads of chic shops, restaurants and tacky tourist shops. This area is one the most urban looking as Berlin is largely devoid of skyscrapers.
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
Prenzlauer Berg is perfect example of the confusion regarding neighborhoods. Though this is one of the most popular areas for visitors and Berliners, it is actually part of the Pankow Bezirk.
No matter its administrative status, Prenzlauer Berg is among the most popular neighborhoods for a reason. It survived WWII with many of its elegant Altbaus (old buildings) intact. Rapid gentrification has changed it from a Jewish ghetto to a place full of squatters and artists to one of the richest areas in Berlin. The bohemians have settled into yuppiedom and now roll with baby strollers rather than fixies. 
The good news is that the area is beautifully restored with some of the most picturesque streets in all of Berlin. Organic ice cream shops, kindercafes (children cafes) and playgrounds sit on every corner. The streets of Kollwitzplatz and along Kastanienallee are particularly desirable, if now totally uncool.
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
Friedrichshain is now part of a combined district of Friedrichshain -Kreuzberg, but these Kiez across the water have distinct personalities.
Friedrichshain is young, punk, industrial, and full of history. Artists and their galleries have long found a home here, with informal street art tagging every external surface. Squatters once occupied many of the abandoned buildings around Berlin, but there are only a few strongholds left, mostly in Friedrichshain. With some of the best nightlife in the city, clubs lurk beneath the S-Bahn or behind that unmarked door.
Rental prices have traditionally been low, meaning there are plenty of cheap eats. But gentrification has even started to encroach on this neighborhood's grime and art nouveau façades have gotten some polish.
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
Like so many of Berlin's coolest neighborhoods, Kreuzberg was once the area for immigrants, then squatters, then artists and students, and is now being taken over by a much richer crowd at a breathtaking pace.
Bars seem to breed here, as well as restaurants offering more exotic fare than schnitzel. There is a bohemian vibe with a strong current of counter-culture. Massive works of art adorn the walls (look for the "people eater" as soon as you cross Oberbaumbrucke) and notable pieces that have become world-famous that have since gone missing.
Its multikulti (multicultural), anything-goes atmosphere has made it a nightlife hub while fabulous parks and ever-changing cafes and restaurants keep it buzzing during the day. It continues to pull an international crows, but they are now more likely to be from San Francisco than Istanbul. 
This pull has made it one of the most expensive areas to live in the city, though living costs are still quite manageable. It is also the site of two of the city's biggest festivals, Ertser Mai and Karneval der Kulturen.
Kreuzberg is in what was West Berlin, and is divided into its own subdivision of West (Kreuzberg 61) and East (SO36). 
 The Kreuzberg 61 area around Bergmannkiez is bourgeois and exceptionally desirable with leafy trees enclosed by gorgeous Altbaus (old buildings). Graefekiez is similarly lovely and located alongside the canal.
Grittier than its western side and radiating out from Kotti (Kottbusser Tor), SO36 is the real heart of Kreuzberg. Eisenbahnkiez is the "nicest", nearest neighborhood.
Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf (its administrative title—again uniting two formerly distinct neighborhoods) is the nicer Berlin. It is cleaner and more civilized than other sections of the city, but for many people that also means it is more boring. 
Ideal for upscale families and older people, it also has some of the best Asian restaurants in the city (plus a wildly popular market). There is a palace, a museum lined with Picassos, and shopping is done for sport.
The area around the Zoo station is undergoing renovation, but still holds bits of its past as We Children from Bahnhof Zoo. On the other hand, outlying districts like suburban Grunewald accommodate Berlin’s high society.
Wedding (pronounced VED-ding) has a very different reputation than much of Mitte. Located just north of central Mitte, the area is still a haven of relatively cheap rents in grand historical buildings. But the now tired saying, "Wedding kommt" ("Wedding is coming/developing"), has been uttered for years now and is more of a warning than a promise.
Gentrification is changing this gritty, bustling area as young Germans and Western immigrants move in. It is one of the most diverse neighborhoods with African grocers, hipster breweries, Turkish restaurants, and Korean nail shops. It is estimated that 30% of the population is non-German.
Neukölln is one of the most popular up-and-coming neighborhoods, swiftly changing amidst rampant gentrification. Romanticized by David Bowie with his song "Neuköln", this neighborhood is the current darling of new immigrants and a great place to base yourself for some of the best nightlife in a changing Berlin.
Central Neukölln can generally be divided into three areas:
Berlin is the capital of German nightlife and is famous for its eclectic bar and club scene. Berlin's best bars offer more than just a pint; they have electrifying cocktails, craft beer, panoramic views, and even bizarre upside down decor.
Start your evening here before dinner or while away the night to the early morning hours. Most bars are open late until the last patron stumbles home. Some still allow smoking and many still only accept cash. Berlin bars can be a window back in time.
Here are the best Berlin bars to have a great night out.
GettyImages / danilovi
 
Welcome to the best place in Berlin to beat the summer heat. Have a cold beer while dipping your toes into the river Spree at the Club der Visionaere, a boathouse turned bar in Kreuzberg. Hang out in the deck chairs or sit on the wooden planks of the deck. The beer is cheap, the guests easy-going, and DJs spin some of Berlin's finest electronic music on the weekends.
www.weinerei.com
 
This wine bar operates on the honor system. After 8pm (for just 2 euros) you get a glass which you can fill, and fill, and fill. The place is crowded with bottles for a full variety of wines to sample. At the end of the evening put as many euros in the jar as you think you spent.
To buffer the wine, there is an vegan buffet and comfy mix of second-hand furniture. The Weinerei has the warmth of a living room filled with friends.
There are now three locations in Prenzlauer Berg and the knowledgeable staff offer advice and full wine seminars.
Hops & Barley is one of the best established German microbreweries in Berlin. Located in Friedrichshain in a former butcher's shop, it is classically decorated with painted tiles, wood bar, and the resident bar dog. The no-nonsense service and straight-forward, delicious brews are appreciated by tourists and locals alike.
Honorable mentions must go out to Heidenpeters and Eschenbräu.
Vagabund was opened by three Americans who found a home in Berlin. Their beer has been at the forefront of the craft beer scene in Berlin and their passion for good beer can be discussed in person with the founders as one of them is usually tending bar.
Located in the up-and-coming neighborhood of Wedding, a window in the taproom showcases the brewing process. Their beer is produced on-site in small batches and they can be wildly experimental.
Honorable mentions go out to BRLO.
www.madameclaude.de
In the topsy-turvy world of Berlin nightlife, everything really is upside-down at Madame Claude. Guests walk on the ceiling as chairs and tables hang overhead.
The lurid colors and furnishings of the this former brothel in Kreuzberg is the perfect late-night hangout, particularly after 7pm when the DJ or live music takes over. Look for the rooms off the main floor that offer smaller shows and experiences.
klunkerkranich.org
Located atop a mall parking lot in Neukölln, unpretentious Klunkerkranich is the best roof-top bar in Berlin. Spectacular panoramic views of the neighborhood and Berlin landmark, the Fernsehturm, are just one of the reasons crowds flock to this bar. Settle into one of the benches among the leafy garden setting to watch the sunset.
It is free to drink here during the day, but in the evenings DJs are regularly scheduled and a small entrance fee is required.
Geist im Glas
What starts a weekend better (or ends a long night) than a full breakfast?
The bar Geist im Glas in Kreuzberg offers instagram-worthy plates of pancakes, huevos rancheros, and biscuits and gravy. These heavenly dishes are beautifully paired with cocktails of infused liquors. Brunch is set for the late morning crowd with opening times from 10:00 - 16:00, but get there early to avoid the crowds.
www.monkeybarberlin.de
  
The Monkey Bar sits high above the city in Charlottenburg. Atop Bikini Berlin shopping mall and adjoining the 25hours Hotel, Berlin attractions like the Berlin Zoo and Kaiser-Wilhelm-Gedächtnis-Kirche (memorial church) appear far below.
You could be forgiven for having your head in the clouds, but the leafy industrial decor keeps you firmly on the ground. Sample their wide range of specially crafted cocktails and watch the sun go down off their magnificent terrace.
michelbergerhotel.com
Edging out the Monkey Bar for the title of best hotel bar in Berlin, Michelberger Hotel is effortlessly cool. The whole building was once a warehouse in typical Berlin fashion, but it now houses tidy, sleek hotel rooms, an experimental restaurant, and a chic bar and lobby just off Warschauer.
The bar focuses on small liquor brands including works from their own distillery. Live music and DJs often take over in the evening to elevate the chill vibe to an out-an-out destination.
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
The biergarten at Cafe am Neuen See within the Tiergarten gives the impression of being out in the countryside, surrounded by leafy trees on an idyllic lake. Row after row of benches back right up to the water where guests carry armfuls of beers back to their tables. This is the perfect location for an afternoon in the shade, or to watch a soccer game, or even in winter when they pull out rustic wood stoves and curling lanes.
Honorable Mention goes to Prater Biergarten.
Wohnzimmer ("Living Room") is the quintessential casual Berlin bar. Full of homey rundown furniture, dim lighting, and informal serving staff, it offers the atmosphere of your best friend's house.
Now there are many bars with this kind of ambience, but Wohnzimmer was one of the first and still a worthy choice for a night that can lead anywhere in Berlin.
GettyImages / Busà Photography
 
Clärchens Ballhaus in Mitte was founded in 1913 and has been running as a ballroom, bar, and restaurant ever since. Each night features a different genre of music with lessons at the beginning so everyone can dance their best. That, and a little liquid courage, make this the perfect place to combine your dancing and drinking.
An intimate West Berlin place to drink rum , the charming vintage decor and specialty drinks transport you to somewhere else entirely.
This insiders' bar is accessible by ringing a bell and was a speakeasy before speakeasys were a thing. Drinks are made to custom order starting with the question “Süss oder sauer” (sweet or sour)? While rum is the star, anything you order is sure to be spectacular.
Rivaling Germany for its best beer reputation, HERMAN’s Belgian beer bar includes a superb selection of their country's best beers. Near the city center, HERMAN is a simple space run by Belgians that focuses exclusively on great beer. For Belgian fans, this is the place to be during soccer matches.
Honorable Mention is Aufsturz for its massive selection.
The Bird 
Known as one of the first American-style burger places in Berlin, its bar also offers exceptional service, oddball favorites like PBR, and the rare find in Berlin - happy hour!
Once you've enjoyed your discount beers or drink, finish off your night with their napalm wings. And prepare to taste nothing else for days as these are actually crazy spicy.
www.vinaquavin.de/berlin
With locations in Berlin and Hamburg, Vin Aqua Vin offers something for all your wine needs. Its Neukölln bar is casually but efficiently outfitted to make it easy to while away the days (or nights). Enjoy sampling their many wine offerings from German classics to natural wines, than buy a bottle to take home.
Sure Das Gift serves Scottish pub classics, but the reason to go there is for the excellent English-language pub quiz every Monday. Order a Scottish malt whisky, pick a carefully curated song from the jukebox, and keep an eye out for for one of the owners, Barry Burns of the band Mogwai.
Honorable mention is the pub night at Two Fellas in Pankow on Wednesdays.
kaschk.de
 
Kaschk has the distinction of serving exceptional beer and coffee. Its clean Scandinavian style covers the cafe-bar combo nicely with third-wave coffee options as well as local and international craft beers. Whether you want to go up or come down, they have the drink for you. This could also be called the "Best Bar with Shuffleboard in Berlin" - a combination you didn't know you needed.
This is a chill cocktail bar behind the green door (hence the name) off of Winterfeldplatz. It features a long bar for hanging out over drinks with new friends and knowledgeable bartenders. Plenty of kitschy memorabilia puts you in the aura of 1970s cool. Try everything on their well-made drink list including the "Green Door Cocktail” of champagne with lemon, sugar, and mint.
Martijn van Exel / flickr / CC BY-SA 2.0
This unique Berlin listing actually encompasses thousands of different locations. The "Späti" or Spätka﻿uf (late shop) covers all your last-minute shopping needs from milk on a Sunday to after-hours beers on a Tuesday night. They may offer drinking on the premise, but most offer a refrigerated section and an opener at the counter so you are good to buy and go, taking your Wegbier and the party with you. 
Berlin is not only the largest city and capital of Germany, but also the hub of the country's nightlife, with a diversity of ways to have fun at all hours. Late nighters will be at home in this city that never sleeps, where clubs don't really start coming to life until around 2 a.m. Plus, Berlin is an overall safe city with infrequent violent crime (theft of items like cash, passports, and cell phones is more common), so you can go out into the night for an unforgettable experience. The German city has an unpretentious nightlife scene and more affordable drinks and cover fees than many other cities, so visitors can enjoy after dark outings more often.
Many words can describe the club scene in Berlin, such as underground, avant-garde, and progressive. From electro and pop to indie, hip-hop, and rock, you can club in Berlin every night of the week. There are also pubs with live New Orleans blues and jazz, comedy clubs with performances in English, bars with beach-like environments including sand and lounge chairs, and late-night places to eat. And of course, don't miss the country's famous biergartens (beer gardens) where people drink, eat, and enjoy entertainment—usually at shared tables—while their children play nearby.
Berlin has many nice places—some of which incorporate the outdoors—to grab a drink and hang out. While the ocean may be far, some bars have stepped up to create a beach atmosphere (sand and all), which is especially nice in the summer when the weather is better. The warmer months also signal the opening of outdoor biergartens. While they typically aren't full-service venues, the gardens do provide some children's activities like playgrounds, sandboxes, ice cream, and non-alcoholic drinks. A few of the area's known bars:
The Berlin districts that are famous for their vibrant club scenes are the neighborhood of Mitte in the city center, Prenzlauer Berg (more high-end), or Kreuzberg-Friedrichshain (two distinct yet connected and alternative neighborhoods).
To find a club, check out Berlin's weekly German magazines called Zitty and tip Berlin, or English language The ExBerliner and the free magazine 030, which offers good club listings and current events. iHeartBerlin is another fabulous resource with an essential guide on how to behave in the club. Keep your eyes and ears open and your dancing shoes on; part of the adventure is finding the right club.
If you are looking for one of the city's underground clubs and bars in Berlin that spring up one weekend and disappear forever the next, you can usually find these clubs in backyards, old warehouses, and even basements of residential buildings. Often when leaving another venue or event, you'll be handed a flyer for these parties. You should also check with the local staff from your hostel or hotel and fellow Germans clubbers. A few popular clubs in Berlin:
While some clubs only require standing in line and paying a cover, several Berlin spots have legendary door policies. While there is no secret recipe to get in everywhere, there are some things you can do to increase your chances. First, know who is DJing and which party you are going to. You'll also have a better chance of getting in if you speak some German and can respond in the country's language. Avoid turning up in a group of more than three people, and stand quietly in line, as bouncers often turn away a noisy or drunken group. Rather than talking a lot, just answer questions as necessary and play it cool. Patience is key, as waiting in line for hours at the top clubs at peak times is expected.
Berlin has plenty of restaurants with cuisine from around the world—some open past midnight—for all the people out on the town. Those wanting local German food can head to Max und Moritz, a family-friendly tavern open every day and around since 1902. If you are craving some Italian fare, DaGiorgio's (closed Mondays) serves vegetarian-friendly pizza, and Pizza Peppino is open even later, past midnight every day. For some Asian fare, try Haveli (not open Mondays) for flavorful Indian dishes or Maison Umami's Vietnamese/ Fusion food; the restaurant is open daily.
Visitors and locals will find live music performances all over Berlin in everything from clubs to old dance halls to piano bars and factories.
The underground Hangar 49 plays a range from heavy metal to Indie rock and features views of the Spree River. Check out Yorckschlösschen for New Orleans jazz, soul, and blues several times a week; you'll also catch swing and funk at times and a chance to people watch many interesting folks from all walks of life.
The lively capital has various options for English speakers seeking some laughter and fun at comedy shows.
Berlin has an abundance of festivals. A particularly unique world-renowned event is the free Festival of Lights over several nights each October. German and international artists light up nearly 100 city streets, landmarks, historical places, squares, popular neighborhoods, and such using light installations, 3D mapping, and video. 
For three weeks in August and September, Musikfest Berlin (Music Festival Berlin) hits concert halls all over the city both day and night with classical music by some of Germany and the world's top orchestras.
The Berlinale (Internationale Filmfestspiele Berlin) held from late February into early March is a top cultural event, as well as one of the best film festivals in the world; enjoy films and parties throughout the day and into the night.
Prenzlauer Berg is one of the most popular neighborhoods in Berlin, thoroughly gentrified and the preferred landing pad for young families. Dodge the hordes of baby carriages as you look up, admiring the magnificent architecture, chic shops, and new eateries popping up weekly.
Discover the best of this favorite bezirk, including its history, highlights, and how to get there.
Founded as its own district in 1920, Prenzlauer Berg is perfect example of the confusion regarding neighborhood divisions. Though this is one of the most well-known areas, it was made part of the Pankow Bezirk in 2001. No matter its administrative status, Prenzlauer Berg is among the most popular neighborhoods for its rich history and undeniable beauty.
In 1933, the same year the National Socialists seized power in Germany, an estimated 160,000 Jews lived in Berlin which was about one third of the country’s total. Much of the community centered on the Mitte and Prenzlauer Berg neighborhoods with schools, synagogues, and specialty shops. By 1939, World War II had begun and about 236,000 Jews had fled Germany.
Under Nazi rule, many of the area's landmarks were re-purposed as temporary concentration camps and interrogation centers like the iconic water tower at Rykestraße. Nevertheless, Prenzlauer Berg survived WWII with over 80% of its elegant Wilhelmine altbaus (old buildings) still intact. It was left largely unchanged after the city was divided and it was ceded to the Soviet Sector.
During this time, many members of East Germany's counterculture made a home in Prenzlauer Berg. Bohemians and artists enlivened this area and were an important part of the peaceful revolution that brought about the fall of the Wall in 1989.
A coat of paint and rapid gentrification has changed it from a Jewish enclave to a place full of squatters and artists to one of the richest areas in Berlin. The Bohemians have settled into yuppiedom and now rule the streets with baby strollers rather than fixies. 
The good news is that the area is beautifully restored with some of the most picturesque streets in all of Berlin. Organic ice cream shops, kindercafes (children cafes) and playgrounds sit on every corner. The streets of Kollwitzplatz and along Kastanienallee are particularly desirable.
With over 300 buildings protected as historic monuments, it is hard not to be charmed just walking around. Here are some of the top attractions in Prenzlauer Berg if you would like a little direction:
The rest of Pankow stretches north past Weißensee (also once its own neighborhood and incorporated at the same time as Prenzlauer Berg) all the way to Buch at the outer edge of Berlin. It is largely residential with many parks and green spaces.
As more and more people are priced out of Prenzlauer Berg, they are finding a new home in Pankow outside the ring.
As with most of Berlin, the neighborhood of Prenzlauer Berg is well-connected with the rest of the city by U-Bahn, S-Bahn, bus, tram, and roadway. It is about 30 minutes from Tegel Airport, 35 minutes from Schonefield and 18 minutes from the Hauptbahnhof (main train station).
