Switzerland is one of the easiest countries to get around, whether you take the clean and efficient trains or the famous Swiss postal buses that can get you to any little village or collection of houses. The ease of travel extends to air travel, too: Switzerland has eight major airports commonly used by tourists.
Zurich Airport is the largest and busiest airport in Switzerland with 31 million annual passengers. Many international airlines service this airport, which has great rail connections not only to downtown Zurich but also to the other major cities of the country. Zurich Airport offers both a train and bus service into the city center. Rail lines S2 and S16 trains take you to Zurich's main rail station in about ten minutes. Special buses, some seasonal, take you to destinations around Zurich.
Geneva International Airport, unofficially known as Cointrin Airport, is located about three miles northwest of the city center; buses and trains provide ground transportation between the two. You can get a free 80-minute public transportation pass with no limitations in the arrivals hall. for Long-distance buses are available on the lower level; many destinations are seasonal. Hotel shuttles are also found on the lower level. All trains stop at Geneva-Cornavin station in the city center, with a number continuing on elsewhere in Switzerland. There are two terminals at this airport: the newer, larger Terminal 1 and the seasonally-used Terminal 2.
This airport with many names serves three countries—Switzerland, France, and Germany—and is jointly managed by the Swiss and the French. It's technically set in the French Alsace region, however. EasyJet is the primary operator. Buses take you to the Basel train station, as well as to Mulhouse, France, and Freiburg, Germany. There is no train service, but you can find taxis here.
The small Flughafen Bern is located 3.5 miles southeast of Bern. It's a popular airport for visitors on charter flights heading to the Jungfrau Ski Region. The White Airport bus shuttles you between the airport and the central train station in the city center. Most visitors to Bern itself will fly into Zurich and take an hour-long train ride to the capital city.
Sion Airport is located 1.5 miles from the Sion, a small city in the heart of the Valais Alps near many of Switzerland's best ski resorts like Zermatt. Bus #1 connects the airport to the main bus station in Sion, which is near the train station—from there, you can catch the Matterhorn Gottard Bahn to get to Matterhorn, Zermatt, and other ski areas to the south.
St. Gallen Airport is located near Lake Constance, near the intersection of Switzerland, Austria, and Germany. It's the home airport of the small airline People's. The bus station is in front of the airport. There is no railway station at the airport, but the railway stations of Rorschach and Rheineck are only five minutes from the airport.
If you are in St. Gallen, there are frequent trains (every 30 minutes) that run between St. Gallen and the much larger Zurich airport and take just under an hour.
Samedan airport, also called Engadin, is located three miles from St. Moritz. The Engadin Bus takes you all over the valley, including the towns of Samedan, St. Moritz, Celerina, Bernina, and Pontresina.
The Lugano - Agno Airport is located 2.5 miles from the city center. Shuttle buses stop just outside the terminal and run to the main train station in Lugano. The FLP train Lugano-Ponte Tresa stops at Agno station, which is just a 15-minute walk to the airport. Milan-Malpensa International Airport is the largest major airport nearby and is just 40 miles away.
