Brussels is the Capital of Belgium and the European Union. A majority of the Brussels metropolitan area's 1.8 million inhabitants speak French, but Brussels is historically Dutch-speaking.
Although Brussels dates from the 19th Century, most of Brussels old town was destroyed for new construction between 1880 and 1980, so very little of the old city is preserved. The Grand Place-Grote Markt is the exception, and it's the tourist center of Brussels.
But potential tourists should not despair, Brussels has an extraordinary number of interesting museums, restaurants, and galleries to visit.
Brussels is prone to rain all year round, but storms tend to be short. Summer is ideal when city folks leave for vacation and high temperatures average just over 70 degrees Fahrenheit.
Larger cities in Europe may be expensive on the surface but offer many opportunities for cheap amusement. See Brussels on the Cheap for some travel tips for budget travelers. You'll find cheap eats, free museums and museum days, and even suggestions for cheap dates.
Brussels has three train stations, Brussels Nord, Brussels Centrale and Brussels Midi.
Brussels Airport is located about 14 kilometers (9 miles) from the city center. Major hubs associated with Brussels are London, Frankfurt, and Amsterdam. Find out how to get from the airport to Brussels with our Brussels Airport Transportation Guide.
Traditionalists may wish to book a user-rated Brussels Hotels (book direct). To get closer to the culture you're staying within, you might wish to rent a vacation rental.
Brussels has many self-catering accommodations, from small apartments to sprawling villas for large families and groups. Self-catering can save money by renting hotel rooms, especially for families. HomeAway lists almost 50 vacation rentals in Brussels (book direct).
Brussels Tours - for travelers who don't want to discover Brussels on their own, try these tours whose themes range from gourmet food to chocolate to beer to day trips around Brussels.
One of the top attractions in Brussels is the Atomium, a representation of an iron crystal magnified 165 billion times built as a temporary exhibit for Expo '58. The atom is composed of 9 spheres, 6 of them open to visitors and connected by escalators. There's a good view from the top sphere, which serves as a restaurant. A recent renovation has turned one of the spheres into a " Kids' sphere hotel."
Brussels is loaded with museums, and Thursdays night those museums are open late with special events, interactive activities, and tours. To prepare yourself, you might want to check out Museum Talks, where you can hear short talks in many different languages (including English) on particular exhibits found in Brussels museums.
A Brussels Card offers good discounts on museums and events in Brussels, plus free access to public transportation and a 25% discount to the Atomium. You can buy the card online in French, but it might be better to wait and purchase one at a Tourist office on the Grand Place, at midi train station or on the Mont des Arts.
The Mont des Arts, the "Art Town in the City" offers gardens and a profusion of museums, theaters, and historic buildings. Its position between the upper and lower town has made it a favorite view spot, especially at sunset.
The top art museums in Brussels are The Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium (Musées Royaux des Beaux-Arts). 2011 is not the time to visit, as they will be closed most of the year for renovation.
Lovers of music and the instruments that have produced it over the years will like the Museum of Musical Instruments (Musee des Instruments de Musique--or MiM) in the center of Brussels. You get some headphones at the entrance of the Art nouveau building to hear the musical instruments you're standing in front of, which include instruments from all over the world. Address: Rue Montagne de la Cour 2 Brussels.
Also popular with visitors is the Belgian Comic Strip Center located in the Art Nouveau Waucquez Warehouse and open every day except Monday.
The Royal Greenhouses of Laeken can only be visited in a two-week period of April-May when most flowers housed in the 18th century greenhouses are in bloom. The information page will tell you the planned dates for the current year.
Not only can you visit the Brussels Gueuze Museum at the Cantillon Brewery (Gueuze is a type of lambic beer) but they've mapped a historic walking tour in PDF form you can take to get to the museum. Download and print Brussels is definitely worth a gueuze before you go.​
Need a short walk after your beer? You can take an itinerary that includes Brussel's three peeing statues.
One of the most famed attractions in Brussels is Manneken Pis, literally "Little Man Pee," which is a bronze statue of a little boy peeing into a fountain. Its origins are unclear, but sculptor Hiëronymus Duquesnoy the Elder's fame has reached around the globe. Today, it is a bona fide symbol of the city. But did you know there are two other "peeing" sculptures?
The second one is Jeanneke Pis, a girl equivalent made in 1987. Some call it gender equality; some may find it offensive--while to most others, it stands as another example of Belgians' sense of humor.
And the third peeing sculpture is the canine Zinneke Pis. This easy-to-overlook sidewalk sculpture at Rue de Chartreux 31 shows... well, a dog peeing.
Brussels, home of Art Nouveau, has great museums that chronicle Belgium's present and past. A number of public museums open their doors for free on first Wednesday of each month, from 1 pm. Some of the participating venues are:
Yes, Brussels will accommodate them. Free Mussels for the little tykes? Yup.
A short drive or train ride north brings you to the town of Mechelen, then further north to Antwerp.
Enjoy Belgium's famous fries in a frietkot. Brussels offers many sauces or dips as an alternative to ketchup and plain mayo. Waffles also are popular and inexpensive.
Belgian beer--Lambic is Brussels' regional brew, fermented from the wild yeasts of the Senne valley. Try Brussels' famous Rabbit cooked in beer; beer cookery is renowned in Belgium.
Try the Rue des Bouchers for your shellfish craving, especially for Moules, the famous mussels of Brussels.
While luxury chocolate boutiques like Pierre Marcolini may seem pricey, they are certainly much more affordable here than in other cities. So despite their prices, they can be good deals. (But resist the temptation to stock up on them--good truffles contain no preservatives, and therefore only last a few weeks.)
Those of us who want to save should beeline to a supermarket. You'll taste that a Belgian brand found in a grocery store still trumps what passes as chocolate in most other countries. A generic Delhaize supermarket baking chocolate is superb. And at €3, jars of chocolate spreads make great, affordable gifts. Try homegrown names like Newtree and Leonidas.
Godiva, while marketed as luxury overseas, is another solid everyday product in Belgium.
A word of caution, however: Stay far away from souvenir shops and their "discounted" boxes of inferior chocolate. You won't see a local buying them.For connoisseurs and die-hard fans, Brussels also offers the Museum of Cocoa & Chocolate at Rue del Tete d'Or 90-11.
Wittamer place du Grand Sablon has a cafe where you might try some of Belgium's famous chocolate in a hot chocolate.
From the history of some of the world's favorite comics to the most famous chocolate on the planet, Belgium's capital offers something to enjoy for every type of traveler. While the city can often seem somewhat business-oriented, it's also home to a thriving nightlife as well as a rich landscape of cultural and historical attractions that welcome guests of all ages.
Whether you're stopping by the Grand-Place to browse goods from local merchants or you're eating some of the country's best chocolates at the famous Choco-Story, no trip to Brussels, Belgium, is complete without visiting one of these top 20 attractions in the city.
 Gautier Houba / TripSavvy
One of the best ways to start your trip around Brussels is to visit the Grand-Place, one of Europe’s most beautiful squares. The heart of Brussels began as a thriving market, soon spreading out into the surrounding maze of little streets: the rues au Beurre (Butter Street), the rue des Bouchers (Butchers Street), and the marchés aux Poulets, aux Herbes, and aux Fromages (Chicken Market, Herb Market, and Cheese Markets).
In the Grand-Place itself, rich merchants built glorious guild houses as headquarters for the different trades, and it’s these gilded, ornate buildings—along with an astonishing town hall—that give the very grand square its wow factor. Many of the guild houses now have pretty ground floor cafés that spill onto the terrace, making the Grand-Place the perfect place for a leisurely coffee or a Belgian beer as you watch the world go by.
At establishments in the Grand-Place, you’ll be paying tourist rates but getting great entertainment for your money. Try La Brouette, which has a roaring fire inside during the winter, plenty of outdoor seating during the summer, and a balcony open throughout the year for a bird’s eye view over the scene below. 
Atlantide Phototravel/Getty Images
Walk into the Comic Strip Center (Centre Belge de la Bande Dessinée) and the first thing you see is a large model of the rocket in Tintin’s "Destination Moon" adventure.
Tintin is definitely the hero of the center, but you'll also see other characters of the famous Belgian comic including Tintin's companions, Snowy and Captain Haddock, as well as Lucky Luke, the Smurfs, and several others. The Center also features a permanent exhibition that explains how the comic strip developed, an exhibition on Tintin's creator Hergé, and a whole section on Peyo with a realistic 3D Smurf village.
Temporary exhibitions cover everything about the Ninth Art, housed in a beautiful Art Nouveau industrial building designed by the Belgian architect Victor Horta in 1906 for a textile tycoon. While you're there, you can also eat in the Horta Brasserie and stock up your bookshelves in the excellent shop.
Sylvain Sonnet/Getty Images
The Belgium Comic Strip Center isn't the only place in the city where you can go to experience its rich cultural ties to Tintin and other comic heroes; comic strip art is alive and well all across the city of Brussels. No matter where you go, you'll come across huge murals painted on the sides of buildings.
Tintin, Captain Haddock, and Snowy escape from a hotel in "The Calculus Affair" in rue de l’Etuve just off the Grand-Place while the mighty and impossibly good-looking Scorpion looks down on you with his sword drawn in rue du Treurenberg. To discover all the city has to offer, you should check out the Brussels tourist website for a list of famous art as well as maps and routes for a self-guided tour around the cartoon trail or take a walking tour with an English-speaking guide.
Richard Baker/Getty Images
Since 1919, enthusiasts have been haggling over every object you could imagine at the weekly Jeu de Balle flea market. It’s open from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. on weekdays, but the weekends (Saturday and Sunday from 6 a.m. to 3 p.m.) bring out many more traders offering furniture, ornate lampshades, jewelry, glasses of every size, color, and shape, and a variety of odd objects.
The market is in the Marolles, traditionally the working-class district of Brussels where you can still hear the Marolles dialect, which is based on Flemish. From a thriving area for artisans in the 17th century to a slum in the 1870s, Marolles started to become fashionable in the 1980s. Walk along the two roads that lead to the square (Rue Blaes and Rue Haute) for an eclectic mix of antique and junk shops, bars and restaurants.
 Gautier Houba / TripSavvy
Brussels has beautiful Art Nouveau buildings, which were largely constructed at the turn of the 19th century. You can buy an excellent brochure at the Brussels Tourist Office, which covers the architecture of the city center and surrounding districts, or you can take a guided walking tour in English from ARAU, which will lead you through the streets, pointing out houses with those famous swirling, sinuous balconies, elaborate doorways and, high up under the eaves, panels of mosaics that catch the sun.
If you have time for only one visit, make it to the Victor Horta Museum, the former home of the architect who designed so many Art Nouveau buildings found in Brussels. Everything in the Victor Horta has been beautifully maintained—from the door knockers to the bathroom furniture—making for a truly remarkable look into the life of the famed architect who once lived there.
Charly Herscovici, Brussels
Although known for his surreal paintings and works of art, René Magritte lived a relatively normal life in the Belgian countryside. If you want to visit the house where the Surrealist artist René Magritte spent his adulthood, catch the 74 tram out to the suburb of Jette.
After you tour his home, spend some time in his distinctly weird world at the Musée René Magritte on the Mont des Arts in central Brussels. It’s a comprehensive trot, on four floors, through his life from his job producing adverts to his own peculiar world of bowler hats, pipes, odd figures, and dream-like clouds that fill his paintings.
Afterward, continue your Magritte-inspired adventure by following in his footsteps for a drink in the atmospheric Le Greenwich where he played chess with his friends.
Lonely Planet/Getty Images
If sampling Magritte's favorite beer wasn't enough to satisfy your craving for Belgium's other famous export (beer), also take a tour of a few of the Brussels many breweries to sample all of the latest batches of Belgian brews. In the city, you’ll be spoiled with options for great beer cellars, many of which can be found around the Grand-Place.
However, one bar combines a fabulous Art Nouveau interior with its own eponymous beer: A la Mort Subite (sudden death). It’s worth seeking out and has been famous since the days when Jacques Brel made it his local hangout. 
Getty Images
Although the sprawling cityscape of Brussels may make you think it's entirely covered by industry, Brussels is actually one of the greenest cities in Europe. It's also located on the northern edge of the huge Forêt de Soignes, which means you don't have to travel too far outside the city to be immersed in nature either.
If you want to get away from the city, take the 71 or 81 bus to Flagey, and from there it’s a short walk south to the Abbaye de la Cambre. Along the way, you'll walk through streets lined with Art Nouveau buildings and past the ponds of the Etangs d’Ixelles with their splashing fountains.
The Cistercian abbey was founded in 1201; today you can see the 18th-century yellow stone buildings that house the Belgian National Geographic Institute and an art school. While there, wander into the church, stroll past the ponds, and sit on a bench to take in the birdsong and the peace of this well-landscaped park.
Wiener Dieterich/Getty Images
The Sainte-Catherine district, located just opposite the old Bourse (stock exchange), is a trendy, modern destination for shopping and dining at some of the city's best new restaurants and shops. Also, if you're interested in sightseeing, don’t miss the delightful Notre-Dame-aux-Riches-Claires, a Flemish baroque church that is well worth going into if it’s open.
To the west, rue Antoine Dansaert is full of fashion shops with a reputation for cutting-edge design. Step into Annemie Verbeke for asymmetrical, often hand-worked women’s clothes, or walk to Martin Margiela for some of the most fashionable styles in town.
You also won’t want to miss the Vieux Marché aux Poissons (the old fish market), which was once the main harbor of Brussel where ships from around the world unloaded salted herrings, timber, grain coal, and silk. There are notable fish restaurants along the waterfront including the long-established François that has served lobsters, crabs, and huge plateaus de fruits de mer to customers since 1922. 
Lonely Planet/Getty Images
Belgium is known around the world for its rich chocolates; learn all about the delicate treat at the Choco-Story museum. This unique gallery tells you everything you need to know about chocolate, offers demonstrations of the subtle art of chocolate making, and displays some extraordinary sculptures and objects—made of chocolate, of course!
Once you're suitably knowledgeable in the craft, it’s time to do some serious chocolate buying. If you’re willing to splurge, try Pierre Marcolini, where the owner chooses the unprocessed cocoa beans used in his confectionary treats personally. This master of the art has various stores in Brussels, but for a central, well-stocked store go to 1 rue des Minimes where the sheer invention of his taste combinations and colors will blow your mind (and the bank).
On the other hand, visit the shop where members of the Belgian royal family have been indulging their sweet teeth since 1919. Mary is unashamedly old-fashioned and elegant and the premier place in Brussels to buy gilded, decorative gift boxes. The only problem will be getting them home without devouring the lot!
Jon Arnold/Getty Images
Originally constructed for the 1958 World's Fair, the Atomium is a landmark building in Brussels located on the Heysel Plateau that now serves as a museum. The sculpture atop this building is actually the molecular composition of an iron crystal, magnified to 165 billion times its size.
Take in 360 views of Brussels from The Atomium or take a surrealistic walk through its tubes and spheres during your trip; afterward, wander through the permanent exhibit about the history of the building or pick up a souvenir from the on-site gift shop.
 Gautier Houba / TripSavvy
The first indoor shopping arcade in Brussels, Galeries Royales Saint-Hubert is a magnificent building lined with high-end shops, theaters, cafes, and a variety of unique boutiques.
Designed and built by Jean-Pierre Cluysenaer between 1846 and 1847, the Galeries stretch over three separate sections known as the King's Gallery, the Queen's Gallery, and the Gallery of the Princes. Whether you're looking to shop or you just want to marvel at this architectural marvel, the Royal Galleries are a great destination, and they're now included in UNESCO's "Tentative List" in the cultural heritage category for World Heritage sites.
Miguel Discart /Flickr/CC BY-SA 2.0
 
The Millennium Iconoclast Museum of Art (MIMA) is one of the coolest museums in the country, featuring a range of art forms including graffiti, digital, and mixed-media.
Located inside the former Bellevue Breweries overlooking the canal, MIMA is open Wednesdays through Sundays throughout the year. A variety of permanent and rotating exhibits decorate the halls of MIMA, and there is also an on-site cafe and gift shop where you can pick up art prints, books, and supplies as well as tasty treats and drinks.  
Wikimedia Commons 
Mini-Europe is a miniature park in Bruparck at the foot of The Atomium that features a variety of scale models of European cities and monuments. The entire park takes less than two hours to explore and features some of the most beautiful towns in Europe.
Although closed from early January to mid-March for renovations and upgrades, Mini-Europe is open to the public daily, but tickets are required to enjoy the monuments. There are occasionally special events held in Mini-Europe throughout the year, too, including the annual Spirit of Europe festival.
Wikimedia Commons 
Brussels isn't only known for Art Nouveau architecture; by the 1920s, Art Deco had begun taking over sections of the city. One of the best examples of this new design style came in the form of Villa Empain, designed by Swiss architect Michel Polak.
Now open to the public and offering tours by the Boghossian Foundation, Villa Empain is considered a masterpiece of the Art Deco era. The Villa is also home to a culture and arts center that hosts a variety of workshops, discussions, and panels on modern and classic art.
Wikimedia Commons 
Another famous site for Art Deco is found just outside of Brussels in Uccle. The Van Buuren Museum is the former home of David and Alice Van Buuren, who spent over 30 years transforming the estate into a living museum full of the works of famous artists including Van Gogh.
The grounds are also home to the Garden of Hearts, a beautifully-curated sculpture and flower garden surrounding the estate. The Van Buuren Museum is open throughout the year from 2 to 5:30 p.m. daily (closed on Tuesdays) and offers guided and self-guided tours of the mansion, garden, and bookstore.
Continuing on your tour of Art Deco in Brussels, stop by the legendary L’Archiduc bar in the Anneessens district for a relaxing drink while enjoying mellow tunes on the jazz piano prominently featured in the room.
Originally opened in 1937, L'Archiduc is considered one of the cultural hubs of the city and now hosts a variety of musical events throughout the year. Located a few blocks away from the Grand Casino Brussels and centrally located in the heart of Brussels, L'Archiduc is a great place to grab a cocktail, view local art, and enjoy some live music in a relaxed setting. 
 William Murphy/Flickr/CC BY-SA 2.0
Brussels isn't only known for its chocolates and comics, it's also a city that truly appreciates and celebrates music in its many forms. If you want to explore and discover the musical history of Brussels—and the world—stop by the Musical Instrument Museum for an up-close look at over 6,000 unique music makers.
Located near the Palais du Coudenberg and the Mont des Arts in the Royal Quarter of Brussels, the MIM also has its own concert hall, specialized library, museum shop, and workshop for restoring and conserving historical musical devices.
 Wikimedia Commons
Of the many odd art installations in Brussels, the statues of a small boy, a small girl, and a small dog relieving themselves on the city streets are probably the weirdest. Known as Manneken Pis, Jeanneke Pis, and Zinneke Pis, these statues are found throughout Brussels and local residents often dress up Manneken and Jeanneke in colorful outfits.
While Manneken was installed in 1619, his sister Jeanneke and their dog Zinneke weren't installed until the late 1980s and 90s. Manneken can be found on the corner of Rue de l’Étuve/Stoofstraat and Rue du Chêne/Eikstraat; Zinneke can be found at the corner of Rue des Chartreux and Rue du Vieux Marché aux grains; and Jeanneke can be found across the street from the Délirium Café on Impasse de la Fidélité near the Rue des Bouchers.
Wikimedia Commons 
Eglise Notre Dame du Sablon (Our Lady of Sablon) is a Late Gothic church in the upper town of Brussels that's known as one of the most beautiful buildings in the city. Once used as a chapel by the Archer's Guild, this 14th-century structure now offers tours throughout the year and still serves as a place of worship.
What's your passion? Whether it's food, drink, shopping or even spiritual, you can satisfy it in the city of Brussels, the capitol of Belgium.
Brussels is a small (one million population) European capital city, yet its passions are outsize. Although it is the headquarters of the European Union and NATO, there is more to Brussels, Belgium than international trade and politics.
Where traveling couples ought to start: Brussels' Grand Place is the city's central gathering spot. The wide, cobblestoned plaza, which was was named a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1998, is surrounded by buildings dating from the 1400s. Today many of them are filled with shops, restaurants and hotels.
The passions of Brussels, Belgium pleasure to residents and visitors alike. The spiritually inclined will want to put Belgium's leading Roman Catholic church, the dual-named St. Michael and St. Gudula Cathedral, on their agenda. It was constructed hundreds of years ago.
Standing high on Treurenberg hill, the Gothic cathedral was first built in the 11th century, renovated in the 13th, and completed in the 15th. It provides succor to those for a passion for Catholicism and draws admiration from those with a passion for history and architecture.
The Brussels Cathedral features a massive pipe organ that fills the nave and towering vaulted ceiling with liturgical music.
Your visit doesn't have to be all liturgy and looking up. On the lawn across from St Michaels and St Gudula Cathedral, a couple takes a break from Brussels sightseeing.
Have a passion for shopping? One of Europe's most elegant addresses, the Galeries Royal St Hubert houses several of Brussels' finest chocolatiers and purveyors of luxury products.
Like the Galleria Umberto in Naples, the Galeries Royal St Hubert is an early example of a covered shopping area.
A handmade treasure to be cherished for generations, Belgian lace is valued for its delicacy, intricacy and quality. Lace is woven from linen thread, and the natural color of unbleached lace is beige. This Galeries Royal St Hubert shop sells handkerchiefs, runners, christening gowns, and more.
It won't cost a Euro — Belgium's official currency since 2002 — to people watch. Have a passion for street life? Outdoor cafes line both sides of this cobblestone street off of Galeries Royal St Hubert.
Belgians have a passion for dining out, and the city's approximately 4,000 cafés and restaurants accommodate them with French and other fare.
Eating mussels in Brussels is one of many culinary passions in this city. (You may want to avoid them in any month that does not have an R in its name.)
Brussels is also credited with cultivating Brussels sprouts, although the vegetable has fewer fans than lovers of Belgian waffles, beer, fries, and chocolate.
Love beer and tasting a variety of different brews? Belgians are justly proud of the quantity (more than 400 varieties) and quality of their beer.
Some of the many brands of Belgian beer at the Beer Temple, all of which are for sale.
Interestingly, every beer has a distinct glass into which it is intended to be poured. And you want to be proper, don't you?
Of the many passions in Belgium, chocolate is paramount. The city of Brussels is filled with chocolatiers, many of whom have been in business for generations.
One of the best-known of Belgium's top-quality chocolatiers, Neuhaus Chocolates maintains an elegant shop in Galeries Royal St Hubert.
Neuhaus chocolates are meticulously made and beautifully packaged.
In addition to the big-name chocolatiers, Brussels supports numerous smaller ones who turn out creative batches of unique chocolates.
And no trip to Brussels is complete without a serving of Belgian waffles, known as gaufre in French.
How do you like your waffles? Sweet or savory, piled high with fruit and/or whipped cream, Belgian waffles are mouthwateringly good whether bought on the street or consumed in a Michelin-starred restaurant. If you use use the proper tool to create them at home and follow the recipe, each time you make them will help you picture a visit to this charming city.

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

 
Courtesy of Made in Louise
Renovated from a historic Art Deco-era Belgian townhouse, each of the 48 guestrooms at Made in Louise is uniquely decorated: bold wallpapers, wooden blinds, fluffy bedding, contemporary furniture, historic architectural features — you’ll be hard-pressed to find a better balance of comfort and design anywhere. Rooms range from a cozy single room (a simple chamber with a single bed, a desk, a bathroom with a walk-in shower) to a spacious triple, with both a single bed and double bed and a large bathroom with a tub and a shower, as well as several options in between.
Extensive complimentary breakfasts are served every morning overlooking the hotel’s leafy courtyard, and include Belgian specialties such as (of course!) waffles, pastries, raisin bread, sirop de Liège (a local favorite that resembles apple butter), local meats and cheeses, as well as freshly-ground coffee. An on-site beer bar and snack bar cover most cravings throughout the rest of the day, and Made in Louise has arrangements with local restaurants to deliver food (in lieu of traditional room service).
A billiard room, an open fireplace area, and the aforementioned courtyard all provide comfy spaces to relax inside the hotel, but when you’re ready to explore the city, Made in Louise offers free Villo! cards, which allow you to use Brussels’ shared bicycle system to explore the immediate neighborhood, an arts-heavy historic quarter called Ixelles, or to quickly find your way to other neighborhoods. The Metro Louise stop is just a five-minute walk.
Courtesy of Pantone Hotel 
Enjoy high-concept design on a backpacker budget at this chic hotel in the quirky Saint-Gilles district. The décor throughout the Pantone Hotel is based on the iconic Pantone Matching System, and each guestroom is uniquely appointed in a specific colorway which, depending on availability, will be individually chosen to match your mood and personality as you check in. Ensuite bathrooms are simple white-tiled rooms with a shower (and tub, in some of the family rooms), but the color scheme carries through in the water cups and toiletry packaging. Wi-Fi is complimentary, but other extras, like breakfast and parking, incur small fees.
The immediate neighborhood is fairly quiet, though there are lots of good (and cheap) international restaurants around. The nearby metro stop is just a few minutes’ walk away (mostly uphill), but from there, it’s just two or three stops to the biggest tourist attractions in the city center.
Courtesy of The Dominican 
Dominican and Gregorian chants play softly in the background in the public areas at this luxurious design hotel built on the site of a 15th-century Dominican abbey, located just across the street from Belgium’s national opera house, La Monnaie, and a short walk from all of central Brussels’ attractions. Rooms, which range from a Standard King Deluxe to Suites and Lofts, are each designed with bright, neutral-toned high-end furniture and bright, modern design elements — red lampshades, modern-style vases, jacquard throw pillows — which evoke Brussels’ dual classic and modern natures. Rain showers, Nespresso machines, and free high-speed Wi-Fi are just some of the in-room amenities you’ll enjoy.
Two on-site restaurants and a cocktail bar are found serve breakfast, lunch, dinner, and snacks. Top-of-the-line gym equipment and a fully equipped boxing room offer guests places to stay fit, and a Turkish-style steam bath and Finnish-style sauna are available for relaxation.
Courtesy of The Funkey Hotel 
Kids (and adults who wish they still were) will go wild for this toy and game-themed concept hotel not far from the European Commission headquarters. The walls and carpets are primary-colored and filled with bright pop art and modern furniture, and common areas are chock-a-block with board games galore, as well as video gaming consoles and Lego bricks. A variety of spacious rooms suit the needs of everyone from solo business/government travelers (it’s not a bad place to start and finish an otherwise dreary day of policy and negotiations) to large families with multiple kids. All include comfy bedding and tidy ensuite bathrooms with showers.
Instead of a traditional restaurant providing room service, the FunKey offers an open kitchen from which guests can help themselves at any time of day or night. The complimentary snacks include bread, cold cuts, cheese, fruit, cookies, cake, cereal, juice and even beer, and the kitchen facilities make it easy for you to cook up a little something extra for yourself with ingredients from the grocery store if, for example, Junior only eats scrambled eggs. Parents with stroller-aged kids should be sure to book a room on the ground floor, as the FunKey does not have an elevator.
Courtesy of Hotel Metropole 
Book the Romantic Escape package at this sweeping Belle Epoque hotel and you’ll be greeted in your room by rose petals strewn across the bed and a chilled bottle of champagne, as well as other VIP goodies. Rooms are decorated in an antique style, complete with furniture, wallpaper and carpeting echoing Art Nouveau and Art Deco styles, and all include bathtubs and double sinks. Multiple on-site restaurants and bars offer both room service and elegant dining and drinking throughout the day and evening.
The Hotel Metropole is centrally located near all of Brussels’ main attractions, including the Saint Catherine and Saint Nicholas churches and the Grande Place and Grote Market. A metro stop is just steps from the front door, and hundreds of restaurants and shopping options are in the immediate vicinity.
Courtesy of Hotel Amigo 
Just steps from the Grand Place and in the shadow of the towering Gothic spire of the Hôtel de Ville de Bruxelles, this five-star hotel provides guests with every luxury. Rooms are understated and chic in design, with clean lines, softly-colored walls and bright statement chairs and throw pillows. Most rooms feature reproductions of art by famed native son René Magritte. Marble bathrooms with large tubs are whimsically decorated with prints of local comic strip hero Tintin and boast Forte Organics amenities and Rocco Forte bathrobes and slippers.
Ristorante Bocconi offers a menu of Italian classics cooked with local and regional ingredients for both in-house dining and room service. Bar A is a comfy place to lounge and snack on lighter fare and sandwiches and offers an extensive craft cocktail menu — a rarity here in beer country. A fitness center and multiple meeting facilities round out the standard offerings, though should you require anything further, the concierge will be more than happy to help you find it.
Courtesy of Pentahotel Brussels City Centre 
Nightlife-loving travelers will enjoy getting their evening started in the trendy lobby bar at the Pentahotel in the hopping Saint-Gilles neighborhood. Unlike most hotel bars, this lounge is popular among young locals, and it’s typically a busy, bustling scene, especially on weekends.
Rooms are also designed with the younger, trendier traveler in mind, featuring modern furniture and art, sleek tile bathrooms with walk-in showers, and a full-wall print of a huge grayscale city map. Breakfast is available (but generally not included in the room price) and high-speed Wi-Fi is free.
Courtesy of Warwick Brussels 
Need to wow a business associate in Brussels? Book the Grand Place Penthouse Suite at the Warwick Brussels, where your guest can join you, via private elevator, for evening cocktails on the 150 square meter terrace overlooking the lit-up Grand Place and all of its surrounding sights, followed by a luxurious dinner in your elegant dining room.
If that’s a bit fancier than you need (or than your budget allows), Standard Rooms and Suites are also wonderfully luxurious and effortlessly classy, and offer all the amenities a business traveler could want, including free Wi-Fi and LAN, a large desk, a direct-dial phone with voicemail and a safe big enough for your laptop. Fifteen separate meeting rooms of various sizes are available, as is a fitness center, sauna, shoe shine services, a newsstand, valet parking and multiple on-site restaurants and bars, as well as a location that gives you easy access to all of central Brussels and the Metro and bus systems.
Courtesy of Train Hostel 
This wholly unique hostel and concept hotel, opened in 2015, incorporates actual train sleeper cars into its whimsical design. Stay in the Train Dorm, a more traditional hostel-style dorm room with nine beds and an ensuite private bathroom (female-only dorms are available), or upgrade to a private Train Room, a relatively standard hotel-style room outfitted with train décor. For the real train experience, though, you’ll want to choose a Train Cabin (refurbished sleeper cars) or the Train Suite, an old luggage berth which literally sits on the rooftop of the hotel and which features a double bed and bathroom with full shower.
The Train Hostel is situated a bit outside of town, but it’s just steps from public transport lines, and it’s right next to Train World, Brussels’ massive new interactive train museum, so train enthusiasts are in for a fully immersive treat. Breakfast is a small fee per person, but a kitchen is available for guest use. An on-site bar and backyard barbecue offer places for travelers to mix and mingle and make new friends.
Brussels is a large city of over a million people with plenty of things to do, and a hub for visitors to Belgium. Many travelers plan trips to the smaller cities of Bruges, or Ghent, which is on the train line from Brussels Midi Train Station to Bruges. If you are driving, use the motorways, which are also an easy way to get around.
Getting around Belgium is a breeze, and the distances between cities are small.
If you are planning a vacation by train to Belgium, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg, you may save money by purchasing a Benelux Rail Pass.
However, if you're only traveling in Belgium, the cheapest way to go is using the 10-Journey Belgian Rail Pass, offered by the Belgian National Rail Company. It makes all train journeys cost around 8€, which is a bargain. The ticket works like this:
If you like to have your tickets in advance, so you don't have to buy them at the train station, Rail Europe does sell Point-to-Point European Rail tickets online.
Many travelers enter Belgium through Brussels Airport. If you are planning to skip Brussels and go on to Bruges, you can take the train right from the airport train station. But why not stay a while, and see the city?
The airport train station is located below the terminal (basement level-1). Frequent trains connect the airport to Brussels North, Brussels Central, and Brussels Midi stations.
If you are planning to visit Ghent, there are direct trains from the airport which take about 54 minutes to arrive in Ghent.
There are no direct trains to Bruges from the airport, although you can change trains in Ghent to go on to Bruges. Otherwise, take the airport train to Brussels Midi station and then a train to Bruges. The train takes just over an hour.
To Ghent from the airport follow signs to the A201 to the R0/E40 direction Ghent, exiting at the Bruges exit. (The R0 is the Brussels ring road, and there usually is heavy traffic in stretches.)
From the Brussels city center to drive to Ghent, take the E40 in the direction of Ghent. Exit at the Bruges exit. The drive should take under an hour.
From Ghent to Bruges, continue on the E40, and it will take another 45 minutes.
You can rent a car at the airport or lease a car in advance if you are staying in Europe for three weeks or more.
Bruges is well connected, not only to Brussels but other cities too. Check out these guided tours of Bruges, which all include air-conditioned bus and a tour guide to show you the city's sights.
Are you planning a trip from Brussels to Paris but are having trouble sifting through your options to decide whether it would make more sense to travel by train, plane or car? If so, this guide is designed to help you sort through your main options-- and make a choice that's both budget-friendly and time-efficient.
Brussels is situated a mere 160 miles from the French capital, which means that if you can afford the time, taking the train or renting a car can offer a more picturesque, and potentially more relaxing and enjoyable, way of traveling from Brussels to Paris than flying would. With high-speed Eurostar and Thalys trains servicing Paris from Brussels daily in under an hour and a half (on average), this mode of getting there is probably the best option. This is especially when you take into account travel time from the city center to airports. 
You can get to Paris from central Brussels in roughly an hour and 20 minutes via the Thalys train network. In addition, Eurostar trains leave from Brussels and connect in Lille, France. Thalys and Eurostar trains arrive in central Paris at the Gare du Nord station, minimizing stress. First-class tickets are usually not much more expensive than economy and include full meal and drink service.
International carriers including KLM Royal Dutch Airlines and Lufthansa and regional low-cost airlines such as Brussels Airlines offer daily flights from Brussels National to Paris, arriving at Roissy-Charles de Gaulle Airport. Flights to Beauvais Airport located in the far outskirts of Paris may be a cheaper option, but you'll need to plan on at least an extra hour and fifteen minutes to get to central Paris.
In smooth traffic conditions, it can take roughly three hours to get from Brussels to Paris by car. However, it's important to keep in mind that during periods of heavy traffic (such as during bank holidays and summer holiday periods), travel times can skyrocket. 
You'll also need to factor in toll charges for your trip: something travelers often forget to include in their budget. In the end, it may be more worthwhile to take the train instead. All will depend on whether you need to transport large amounts of equipment (perhaps for a family camping trip) or other goods. If you don't, the stress of driving may not warrant the trip, even if it can be a cheaper option. 
If you're arriving in Paris by plane, you'll need to figure out how to get to the center of the city from the airports. You also may want to consider taking a taxi from the airport, but this, again, will depend on how much you're willing to spend, whether you're traveling with small children or elderly visitors who may find public transportation options uncomfortable, etc. 
Perhaps you've scheduled a trip that includes travel between several European cities, and need more information on the best ways to get to the French capital. These guides in particular may be helpful: 
Brussels is a city that offers a lot of delicious food, and it doesn't have to be expensive. Some of their most iconic dishes—think of french fries and Belgian waffles—shouldn't cost you more than a few euros. Even if you're looking for something more elegant, you can find restaurants that serve typical dishes like mussels that won't break your budget. What's more, as the unofficial capital of the European Union, Brussels is also a melting pot of cultures and offers inexpensive cuisines from around the world.
This simple and unassuming deli is one of the top-rated places to eat in Brussels, and the constant line outside is proof. The ingredients are all high-quality and mostly local meats and cheeses served on a freshly baked baguette. If you're unfamiliar with the wide array of European cheeses and charcuteries and don't know what to order, the gregarious shop assistant will help out by asking you a few questions. Do you like stinky cheeses? Spicy meats? Do you want cheese with a bite? Do you prefer a smoky flavor? Whatever you answer will determine the personalized sandwich created for you. The exceptional service means the service can be slow, so consider going early and saving your sandwich for lunchtime.
The name french fries implies they're from France, but locals will tell you that they are a purely Belgian invention. Where exactly they're from isn't certain, but you can be sure to find these perfectly fried potatoes in many of the friteries around Brussels, and Fritland is one of the best. When you order fries, they should come overflowing out of a paper cone. They're generally fried in beef fat (if you're vegetarian or vegan, ask for a place that uses oil), which gives them an extra layer of richness. In addition to the fries, there is a wide variety of sauces to choose from. Ketchup and mayonnaise are the standard choices, but if you want to branch out, try curry ketchup, tartar sauce, sauce samouraï (mayonnaise, ketchup, and harissa), or sauce andalouse (mayonnaise, tomato paste, and peppers).
It's easy to find cheap kebabs in any major European city but finding a good cheap kebab can be a challenge. Enter L'Express. This Lebanese fast food restaurant is centrally located and serves chicken shawarma, beef shawarma, and falafel, all served in a warm grilled piece of pita bread. These sandwiches are great for lunch, dinner, or a late-night snack after a night of drinking Belgian beers. There's also an assortment of appetizers and other small dishes to share, such as housemade hummus, Lebanese salad, and a halloumi cheese plate. If you're looking for Middle Eastern cuisine, don't look farther than L'Express.
The bilingual name of this eatery—North Sea in Flemish and French—tells you exactly what to expect here: Seafood. It's a popular spot with the locals and is more of a fishmonger than an actual restaurant. It's located on a busy street corner and there are no tables inside to sit. Simply order at the counter, wait for your food, and enjoy it outside with the company of everyone else who comes to eat here. The seafood here is always fresh, and you can get oysters, razor clams, and calamari, among other things. But if you haven't tried moules-frites, the Belgian specialty of mussels (with fries), this is an affordable place to try them. You won't love them because they're cheap, you'll love them because they're delicious.
Brussels has a sizeable North African population, and many of the best North African restaurants are concentrated around the Gare du Midi train station. Walk toward the station from the city center down Avenue de Stalingrad, and you'll smell the savory aroma of grilled meats emitting from various restaurants. Msemen is a Moroccan flatbread that often comes stuffed with meat, a type of North African crepe. It's a wallet-friendly meal that's perfect to enjoy when you need a break from the typical Belgian cuisine.
You'll see more Belgian waffle stands in Brussels than coffeeshops in New York City. A real Belgian waffle should be sweet and doughy enough that it requires no topping beside a dusting of powdered sugar, and perhaps a moderate amount of whipped cream or melted Belgian chocolate, and Vitalgaufre is the place to enjoy one. However, while the topping-heavy waffles may be geared toward tourists, there's also nothing wrong with enjoying your waffle smothered in cherries, Nutella, bananas, ice cream, or whatever else your heart desires. It's your waffle and you should eat it as you please.
You’d expect Brussels to have some of the best specialist beer bars in Europe, but if you prefer an exotic cocktail there’s an equally great choice. So get ready to taste some of the local amber nectar — brewed in the Trappist monasteries of Belgium — and craft beers. You probably know about world-famous Leffe, but if you’re new to the game, try the lambic and krieks (typical sweet Flemish beers). But be warned; some of these beers come in at 8.5% or 9%, so drink sensibly. Most of the bars here are open well into the early hours of the morning, but check opening times first if you are making a special journey.
Near the Grand-Place, but tucked away down a narrow passage, ‘The Lark’ is the place for a different experience. Waiters, dressed like monks, pour jugs of beer while you sit at long tables. It’s a convivial bar, always crowded but extremely friendly. Talk to your neighbors about the relative merits of what you are drinking, but make sure you try the jeune lambic blanche white beer.
This splendid, ornate bar called ‘Sudden Death’ is always busy. Opened in 1928, it got its peculiar name after a game of dice that the regulars played in a previous bar. It’s still in the same family with the fourth generation Vossens serving beers from Trappist offerings to the splendid Geuze and Lambic beers. But you really should go for the Lambic White Mort Subite at least once. After a few beers, you’ll really appreciate the dramatic and theatrical songs of one of the regulars of the past, the Belgian singer and actor, Jacques Brel, and you might even start singing.
Another bar you find just off the beaten track on Impasse des Cadeaux, this atmospheric, old-fashioned estaminet is a great contrast to the huge bars of central Brussels. Dark oak beams on the ceilings; brass lamps and old leaded windows shed a soft light on the handful of tables and chairs, and old photographs decorate the walls. The expected list of great beers from the most popular breweries are chalked up on blackboards. This is the place where locals come for a cosy drink with friends in a pub that takes you back to old Brussels, which is fine until you have to use the outside toilet.
With 42 beers on tap, plus a large range of bottled beers, this is another beer lovers’ dream. The original branch, opened in the 1980s, is away from the Grand-Place tucked away behind the St Gilles town hall in this increasingly cool area. With its black and white tiled floor, wooden and brick walls and the most impressive range of beer handles for the draft variety, this is a pleasant stop where you’ll find more locals than tourists which is a refreshing change in the city.
The second branch, closer to the Grand-Place in Place Fontainas, is a lot more comfortable than many other central Brussels bars. With its booth seating and tables and chairs well-spaced along the bare brick walls that are decorated with moody black and white photographs, it has a relaxed, welcoming vibe. Strings of hops and bottles of beers that you’ve probably never heard of decorate the bar where the skillful staff grab a glass hanging over their heads and pour your beer fast. On a warm summer’s day or evening, you can sit outside on the pavement and watch the world go by. The beer mats are covetable.
The Belgians have an odd sense of humour which you’ll get here at ‘The Coffin’ which opened in 1974 after The Exorcist terrified us all. In the dark bar, where red lights bathe visitors in the appropriate color, beers are served in skull-shaped mugs on tables made from coffins under a ceiling of hanging skeletons. It’s fun, if a little bizarre, and certainly different.
10-12 Rue des Harengs
The Raven is for night owls, if the pun is allowed. This noisy, busy bar slightly out of the centre, has some great beers for serious imbibers — including those gorgeous fruit beers which seem so sippable and are so deadly at 5% alcohol and up. If you are really serious, forget the 25cl or 33cl glasses and go for the ‘Chevalier’ which comes in a huge glass.
Cramped or cosy depending on your viewpoint (and whether you’ve grabbed a decent-sized table), this charming bar takes you back to a gentler past. Order a local beer or splash out on a whisky. Sofas line the walls; soft lights give everyone a chance to look good; old French songs that were the stuff of seduction play softly in the background. There are Wuflitzers, posters, flags, and books on occasional tables scattered everywhere. It’s a little slice of nostalgia in a busy modern world.
At the further end of chic and rich Avenue Louise, Green Lab is a little off the beaten track, but well worth the detour. They call their décor a mix of industrial and steampunk, which is a pretty accurate description for the design, with its metal seating and chairs and large tubes snaking around the place. Go here for the beer, but more for the famous cocktails, the huge selections of gins (around 250 of them), and the absinthe. Once banned as it tended to send the drinker mad, today absinthe is fashionable. Green Lab is fun, large (on three levels), inevitably noisy given the metallic décor…and green.
Once the great meeting place for the Surrealists, including René Magritte who held an exhibition here before he became famous, the popular estaminet is the place for a traditional drink in a traditional setting. Dark wooden furniture, enigmatic writings on the walls (‘Everyone has the right to 24 hours of liberty a day’), the odd antler hanging from the ceiling, an open fire, horse brasses galore, and a whole load of kitsch has turned this former convent into a haven for the eccentrics, or the thirsty: it has a great list of beers.
You couldn’t ask for a more respectable location than the ‘English Pharmacy’. It’s in Coudenberg — the arts area of Brussels — just near the Fine Arts Museum. What was once the place to go for medicine is now the place to go for top cocktails served in a large space by experienced mixologists who will also make up something special for you if you ask. Aside from the odd artifacts like bird skeletons and odd jars of things in formaldehyde (it’s better not to look too closely at these), La Pharmacie Anglaise has comfortable chairs, chandeliers, wood décor and two levels to take care of the crowds that inevitably flock here. You can book a table in advance.
Lord Byron may not look like much from the outside, but this small and intimate bar is a real local favorite — and well worth tracking down. It's the place where Barry Jenkins wrote a lot of the screenplay for the 2017 award-winning film, Moonlight. Friendly staff fit into the trendy vibe of this peaceful street off the busy Place Saint-Géry. Lord Byron is known for great cocktails, dispensed by owner Bajram (don’t worry, just call him Byron), a great atmosphere and old furniture.
Location: 8 Rue des Chartreux
Make your way to Sainte-Catherine — one of the trendy areas of Brussels — and then take a seat at Monk Bar, which is often heaving on weekend nights. It looks the part with its wooden décor, the list of beers chalked up on the blackboard and mirrors that hang on the walls. It also offers live music, and rocks until 3 or 4am on a weekend.
You can’t get much more touristy in Brussels than the Mannekin Pis area — that bizarre statue of a peeing boy that is always surrounded by visitors with cameras. So you’d expect that the Poechenellekelder would be pretty much of a tourist trap. But don’t be put off! Go down the stairs into the ‘Puppet Cellar’ for a good selection of beers to sip while surrounded by a collection of puppets that would be quite happy in any theatre.
Not every Amsterdam visitor lands at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, or even in the Netherlands. Only a few hours away in Belgium are two airports (located in Zaventem and Charleroi), which are two attractive airport options when visiting Amsterdam.
Brussels Airport (also known as Brussels National or Brussels Zaventem Airport), is situated to the northeast of Brussels and is served by more traditional airlines.
The smaller South Charleroi Airport (CRL) is 25 miles south from Brussels in the city of Charleroi and is about 160 miles from Amsterdam. This airport is a favorite with low-cost flyers as a hub for low-cost airlines such as Ryanair and Wizz Air.
While Charleroi Airport isn't exactly around the corner from Amsterdam, it takes just three to four hours (by car or train) to commute either way to the Dutch capital. Visitors can take in several amazing cities on the route from Charleroi to Amsterdam, including Brussels, Antwerp, Rotterdam, and more.
Note Brussels South Charleroi Airport is not Brussels Airport; they are located in two different parts of the country.
Two different train routes serve the route between Amsterdam and (the vicinity of) Charleroi Airport, but the train will only take you to Station Brussel Zuid (Brussels South railway station), in Brussels. You will need to take a city shuttle to get to the airport.
The Intercity Brussels, the more economical of the two routes, is a three hour, 15-minute ride.
The Thalys train, meanwhile, slashes the travel time almost in half—to one hour and 50 minutes—but be prepared to shell out nearly twice as much for the fare. See the NS International web site for the latest schedule and fare information.
To reach the airport from Station Brussel Zuid, transfer to the Brussels City Shuttle. Travel time from station to the airport is about 50 minutes.
For the cheapest option, travelers can complete the journey from Amsterdam to Brussels by bus and then take a shuttle to Charleroi Airport. An international bus is an economical solution for travel between Amsterdam and Brussels. Like the train, you need to go to Station Brussels Zuid, in Brussels to catch the shuttle.
For the lowest fares, plan to book several months in advance, as prices increase as the departure date nears.
Riders have a choice between three bus companies for the Amsterdam-Brussels route: Eurolines, Flixbus, and OUIBUS. Tickets are available online at each company's website or brick-and-mortar offices in various cities. It is important to note that each bus company has different departure and arrival points for the two cities.
For travelers to Charleroi Airport, OUIBUS is the best bet, since it stops directly at Station Brussel Zuid. If you arrive at other points in the city, it's necessary to take the local train to Station Brussel Zuid to continue the onward journey to the airport.
From two of the other points, the travel time is minimal to get to Station Brussel Zuid—10 minutes from Brussel Noord, and three minutes from Brussel Centraal. You may want to check with the Belgian train (SNCB) service for the latest timetables and fare information.
The 160-mile drive from Amsterdam to South Charleroi Airport can be completed in two hours and 45 minutes. Expect to spend around €30 to €35 in fuel costs, and substantially more to park at the airport.
Choose from a variety of routes, find detailed directions, and calculate trip costs at ViaMichelin.com (search for Aéroport Charleroi Bruxelles Sud).
Belgian Lesbian & Gay Pride is an annual event in Brussels since 1996 (it actually evolved from Pink Saturday gay pride observations that were first held in honor of New York City's Stonewall Riots in Antwerp beginning in 1979). Belgian Pride runs throughout early May and culminates the weekend of May 20 and 21, 2017. It's a great opportunity to visit this beautiful city with a vibrant LGBT community and a slew of noteworthy attractions.
Brussels Pride includes several events through the weekend, all occurring in the city center of this urbane, gay-friendly, and relatively underrated city that's just 300 kilometers northeast of Paris and 200 kilometers south of Amsterdam. Also note that the week preceding Pride is "Rainbow Week" throughout Belgium, and this includes a number of events in other communities.
The festivities commence for about two weeks before the big weekend with a variety of parties and events around the city - here's a full calendar of events. On Belgian Pride Day (Saturday, May 20), which draws some 80,000 spectators and participants, there's an opening religious ceremony in the morning, a festival at the "Pride Village" that's set up in front of the Bourse (Place de la Bourse/Beursplein) in the heart of the city, a Pride Parade (typically at 2 pm) that begins at the Pride Village, entertainment and live music at the Pride Village Main Stage, and then Pride Parties throughout the evening.
Brussels Gay Resources
Many of the city's gay-popular restaurants, hotels, and shops have special events and parties throughout Pride Week. Check local gay papers, which are distributed at popular gay bars like L'Homo Erectus and Tels Quels Cafe. And check out the Brussels Gay Travel Guide by Patroc.com, which is very handy and has extensive information on the local gay scene. Additional excellent trip-planning resources are the handy travel site produced by Tourism Flanders, and the Gay Travel site operated by the Belgian Tourist Office.
Eurostar is a high-speed luxury train that travels from London to continental Europe. Eurostar trains from London to capitals like Paris, Brussels, and Amsterdam travel at speeds of up to 300 mph, averaging 186 mph. Eurostar crosses the English Channel through the "Chunnel." 
The most popular Eurostar route is London to Paris. There are more than 30 trains per day to various destination in England, France, Belgium, and the Netherlands. Rail time is as little as two and a quarter hours. Eurostar's home station is St. Pancras International Station in London, and the Paris station is the Gare du Nord.
As of spring 2018, Eurostar services the following destinations from London. In France: Calais, Lille, Paris, Disneyland Paris ("Euro Disney"), Avignon in the South of France; Belgium: Brussels; England: Ebbsfleet and Ashford; Holland: Rotterdam and Amsterdam.
Eurostar is not necessarily cheaper than flying. But in the end, it takes less time. And Eurostar is more... 
Direct, from center city to center city, with no to-and-from-airport travelSimple ticket-wise; you just buy your tickets online, with no price-shoppingFlexible, with many trains per day, and one-way fares an optionForgiving, with no restrictions on baggage size or weightComfortable, with more space to move around in, and no seat belts requiredSociable, with bar carsScenic, with tracks through the countryside, not along a highwaySavory, with interesting meals included in Business Premier class and for purchase in Standard and Business Premier classGreen, with fuel-efficient Eurostar allowing passengers to leave a smaller carbon footprint
Passengers can connect from Eurostar to other high-speed rail lines en route to destinations all over continental Europe. (Find out about RailEurope and Eurail Passes.) The Eurostar journey is so quick, many Londoners and Parisians take Eurostar day trips for business or shopping.  
Eurostar's terminals, St. Pancras in London and Gare du Nord in Paris, are a quick Tube or Métro ride from the center of town.
Eurostar's check-in process is similar to a flight's (security line, passport control, baggage screening). Passengers must check in at least a half hour before departure time. There are special lounges for Business Premier passengers in London, Paris, and Brussels.
Eurostar's main stations offer tabacs (smoking lounges) and excellent coffee bars inside the ticketed-passenger areas. If you come hungry, Gare Du Nord features Paul, a first-rate chain selling baguette sandos, quiche, and pastries. St. Pancras International has a variety of snack options. 
Duty-free station shops sell top-brand gourmet foods such as ripe cheeses, chocolate, hunks of foie gras, and other treats. Passengers also have their choice of wine, cognac, perfumes, fashion accessories, and other duty-free items for purchase.
Eurostar's ride is smooth and comfortable. Your feet aren't cramped by underseat bags, since luggage racks are plentiful and roomy. There are no restrictions or fees for luggage size, weight, or number of pieces, but passengers need to stow their luggage.
It is pleasant to watch the changing scenery go by. The only time passengers are truly aware of Eurostar's high speed is when another train whooshes by. Seatbelts are not required, so passengers are free to walk about the train.
Many trains, particularly newer or updated trains, offer complimentary wifi throughout. Eurostar is wiring its entire fleet, with all trains to offer free wifi by 2019. 
Eurostar trains offer three classes of service: Economy, Standard Premier and Business Premier. Trains are up to 16 coaches (cars) in length, and every train features a Club Car for coffee and snacks. 
Business Premier Class is plush and comfortable, with widely spaced seats. Passengers have access to an exclusive First Class lounge in both London, Paris, and Brussels, and you can purchase hot meals.
Standard Premier Class offers gray velour seats with a moveable leather headrest. Seats recline slightly. Some seats are standalone, offering more privacy for solo passengers.
Economy Class's seating is adequate, without much wiggle room. Standard class passengers are not fed.
Eurostar offers various money-savings bonuses to passengers. For info on destinations, fares, timetables, current vacation packages, and more, visit Eurostar's website.
Eurostar is the high-speed rail link connecting London to Paris, Brussels and beyond. The convenient city center train stations mean that travel time is far shorter than by plane, when you consider check-in times, getting your luggage and transferring from the airports). In fact, Eurostar carries more passengers than all of the airlines combined on both routes out of London.
London is usually the shortest path from the US to a major airport in Europe, and often the most inexpensive choice for non-stop flights. It's a natural start your vacation in London, and when you're through visiting, Eurostar is right there at St Pancras station - and Paris just over two hours away. If you only have a short time to see Europe and want to see some of Europe's Best Cities, Eurostar is a fast, convenient way to tour London, Paris, and cities in bordering countries like Belgium, the Netherlands, and Germany.
The fastest London to Paris trains take just over two hours, while the London to Brussels journey is exactly two hours long. Other travel times are listed with the relevant city, below.
And if you're tempted by Premium First Class, you'll also get fast-lane check-in, four-course lunch or dinner service with wine and a free taxi service from your arrival point to any city destination
Starts in London (for as many days as you can afford), for either Lille (one day) or Paris (again, as long as you can afford) on the Eurostar. Alternatively, miss both out and head straight to Brussels (two days). From there a loop takes you to Amsterdam (three days) through Antwerp (one day), then on to Cologne (one day). From Cologne, you can return to Brussels or Lille in anticipation of the return trip on the Eurostar.
The classic Eurostar route. It takes just over two hours to get between two of Europe's greatest cities, meaning it's possible to visit​ ​Paris as a Day Trip from London!
There are high-speed trains from Paris all over Europe. Maybe you feel like heading south to Barcelona.
On the London to Brussels route, your Eurostar ticket is good for continuing on to any station in Belgium. Thus, if you didn't want to see Brussels, you could go on to Ghent, Brugge, Damme, or anywhere else in Belgium that captures your fancy, without paying extra. 
Brussels is in the heart of Europe, with high-speed trains to Paris and to Amsterdam.
Europe's only Disneyland theme park is close to Paris.
Most visitors to Disneyland head to Paris ​afterward. There are also direct trains to Brussels.
 The first stop on the French side of the tunnel Lille close to the Belgian border, Lille is close to some historic World War I battlefields.
See also:
Belgium is the obvious next stop.
The capital of the Rhone region and good for access to the Beaujolais Vineyards. Lyon is said to have the most restaurants per capita in France.
Journey time is four-and-three-quarter hours from London.
To the Cote d'Azur or into Spain.
Avignon is a walled city in southern France's Provence region. Avignon is also considered the capital of the famous Cote du Rhone wine region. Avignon is reached easily by fast TGV train from Paris.
The main attractions in Avignon are the 14th century Palace of the Popes and the 12th century Avignon Bridge​ called the Saint-Benezet bridge after the young shepherd who heard divine voices instructing him to construct it. Both are UNESCO world heritage sites.
You have to change in Brussels, but the train to Amsterdam is still faster than flying when you take into account check-in times and airport transfers.
A direct train from London to the south coast of France? Incroyable!
 Journey time is six-and-a-half hours, with departures once per day.
