The Athenaeum is one of the finest buildings in Bucharest, Romania. Currently used for the George Enescu Philharmonic, the theater has 800 seats and excellent acoustics.
The French baroque Athenaeum has a marvelous cupola, which features statues such as this one. The Athenaeum was built in 1888 with funds donated by the public.
This tall 82-foot pillar is the centerpiece of the Memorial of Rebirth in Revolution Square, which honors the patriots of the 1989 uprising.
Revolution Square in Bucharest, Romania is a memorial to the 1989 revolution. Over 1000 citizens died and another 3000 wounded during the revolt. The week-long Romanian Revolution of 1989 was a violent time that culminated with the government of Nicolae Ceauşescu being overthrown. 
The Kretzulescu Church dates back to the early 18th century and sits on one corner of Revolution Square. The Eastern Orthodox church was built in the Brâncovenesc style and is nearby to the former Royal Palace.
This lovely library, which sits across the street from the National Museum of Art in Romania, was designed by the French architect Paul Gottereau. The building was heavily damaged during the December 1989 revolution but was restored shortly thereafter. 
Union Square is Bucharest's largest. It is filled with fountains but surrounded by numerous clunky buildings constructed during the Ceausescu era.
The complex has been the center of the Romanian Orthodox Church since the 17th century and houses the cathedral and the residence of the Patriarch.
The Patriarchal complex is the home to the Patriarch of the Romanian Orthodox Church, much like the Vatican is home to the Catholic Church Patriarch (Pope).
These three modern crosses appear stark when compared to the ornate Patriarchal Cathedral nearby.
The Patriarchal Cathedral complex sits atop the Mitropoliei hill. This complex has been the center of the Romanian Orthodox Church since the 17th century.
The Palace of the Patriarchy complex has many buildings including the cathedral, the Patriarch residence, and other administrative and housing structures. The Palace is the centerpiece of the Romanian Orthodox faith and has undergone many improvements over the years. It was first constructed between 1654 and 1658.
This small outdoor chapel is used by worshipers to light candles for their loved ones. It was moved outside to protect the cathedral from smoke and fire. It is off the beaten path, but a very impressive experience.
Alexandru Ioan Cuza was the first ruler of the United Principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia, which were a precursor to Romania. Alexandru Ioan Cuza (also known as Alexander John Cuza) ruled between 1859 and 1866. He was responsible for much of the modernization of Romania. This statue is found on the hill leading to the Patriarchal Cathedral, which is the home of the Patriarch of the Romanian Orthodox Church.
Bucharest's Triumphal Arch was modeled after the Arc de Triomphe in Paris. It was erected in 1935 to commemorate the creation of Greater Romania in 1918.
  Statue Atop the Athenaeum  
  Memorial of Rebirth in Revolution Square  
  Revolution Square in Bucharest  
  Kretzulescu Church on Revolution Square  
  Bucharest Central University Library  
  Bucharest Union Square  
  Patriarchal Cathedral  
  Bucharest Patriarchal Cathedral and Palace Complex  
  Crosses at the Bucharest Patriarchal Cathedral  
  Bucharest Patriarchal Cathedral Complex Building  
  Palace of the Patriarchy  
  Bucharest Patriarchal Cathedral External Altar for Lighting Candles  
  Alexandru Ioan Cuza Statue  
  Triumphal Arch  
