Buda and Pest Are Fascinating Cities with Intriguing History
The Danube River runs right through the center of Budapest, dividing the city into two parts--Buda and Pest. Since the city links western and eastern Europe, Budapest has long had an intriguing history. River ships sailing the Danube always stopover in Budapest for the day, docking in a perfect place, with a marvelous view of Fishermen's Bastion and the Palace in Buda on one side and the downtown area of Pest on the other. The ships often wait until after dark to sail away since the city lights on the river are truly memorable.
Budapest has many fascinating sites on both sides of the river. Many of these sites are diverse, with fascinating histories. They range from churches such as St. Stephen's and Matthias to monuments, parks, and beautiful bridges across the Danube.
Since the ships dock conveniently near many of the tourist areas, passengers can explore the city on their own. In addition, river cruises usually include an overview tour of the city as part of the fare.
Budapest is also one of my favorite sail away ports in the world.
The Chain Bridge was named after count Széchenyi, who sponsored the building of the bridge.
The Chain Bridge was built by Scotsmen William Tierney Clark and Adam Clark and opened in 1849.
The Erzsebet (Elizabeth) Bridge over the Danube River in Budapest was named after Queen Elizabeth, a popular empress of Austria-Hungary assassinated in 1898.
The Palace of Art in Budapest, Hungary sits on Heroes' Square. The Palace of Art was built in 1895 and contains exhibits of Hungarian as well as other artists.
The Széchenyi Thermal Bath in Budapest is the largest medicinal bath in Europe. The Széchenyi bath is found in the City Park of Pest.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
St. Stephen's is the largest church in Budapest and holds about 8500 people.
The Budapest Central Market is a short walk from where the river ships dock. Is has many fascinating food products, handicrafts, and other wares for sale.
The Millennium Monument was started in 1896 and completed in 1929.
The base of the Corinthian column of the Millennium Monument at Heroes' Square in Budapest.
The column is topped with a statue of the archangel Gabriel and surrounded by seven mounted men representing the Magyar chiefs who led the Hungarian people over 1100 years ago.
Heroes' Square in Budapest is at the end of Andrassy Avenue. Heroes' Square is part of a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Sixty pairs of cast iron shoes, cast in the styles of the 1940's, stand in remembrance of the people shot into the Danube during the Arrow Cross terror.
Pest is on the flat side of the Danube River, and Buda is on the hilly side of the river.
Fishermen's Bastion is part of the Buda Castle District and is near Matthias Church and the Palace.
In the Middle Ages, fishermen set up their defense positions at the area known as Fishermen's Bastion. The site is filled with towers, turrets, and river views.
The Buda Castle complex was once the palace of Hungarian kings. It was once called the royal palace. This monument is one of many in the castle district.
Budapest, including the banks of the Danube, the Buda Castle Quarter, and Andrássy Avenue up to Heroes' Square are a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
The monument was erected in 1947 on Gellert Hill in Buda to mark the liberation of the capital from the Germans in 1945 by Soviet troops.
  Parliament Building on the Danube River in Budapest  
  Chain Bridge in Budapest  
  Chain Bridge Over the Danube in Budapest  
  Erzsebet (Elizabeth) Bridge Over the Danube River in Budapest  
  Gresham Palace and St. Stephens Basilica in Budapest, Hungary  
  Palace of Art in Budapest, Hungary  
  Széchenyi Thermal Bath in Budapest  
  St. Stephen's Basilica in Downtown Pest, Hungary  
  St. Stephen's Cathedral in Budapest, Hungary  
  Dome Interior of St. Stephen's Basilica in Budapest, Hungary  
  Budapest Central Market  
  Paprika Peppers for Sale at the Budapest Central Market in Budapest, Hungary  
  Corinthian Column in the Millennium Monument at Heroes' Square in Budapest  
  Millennium Monument at Heroes' Square in Budapest  
  Heroes' Square in Budapest  
  Heroes' Square in Budapest  
  Shoes on the Danube Promenade - Budapest Jewish Holocaust Memorial  
  Budapest Parliament Building in Pest, Hungary on the Danube River  
  Budapest Opera House  
  Gresham Palace Four Seasons Hotel Lobby in Budapest  
  Downtown Pest, Hungary  
  Matthias Church Steeple in Budapest, Hungary  
  Matthias Church - Budapest, Hungary  
  Mathias Church Interior in Budapest, Hungary  
  Stained Glass Window in Matthias Church, Budapest  
  Fishermen's Bastion in Budapest, Hungary  
  Fishermen's Bastion Overlooking the Danube River in Budapest  
  St. Stephen Statue at Fishermen's Bastion in Budapest  
  Budapest Castle District Monument  
  Liberation Monument on Gellert Hill in Budapest  
  Liberation Monument in Budapest Overlooks the Danube River from Buda, Hungary  
  Viking River Cruises' Viking Spirit on the Danube River in Budapest  
  Viking Neptune and Viking Danube on the Danube River in Budapest  
  Budapest Parliament at Night  
  Chain Bridge in Budapest at Night  
What month will you travel to Budapest? Get help planning the trip of your dreams with these monthly guides, which offer information about events and weather in Budapest throughout the year. Also get important tips to make your visit successful.
Start the year off right with a trip to Budapest in January. Enjoy an afternoon in Budapest's European-style cafes if the air gets too chilly when you're out and about in the Hungarian capital.
Celebrate Valentine's Day in Budapest with a romantic dinner, a concert, or simply a bottle of good Hungarian wine. This romantic destination is perfect for couples who will find plenty of memories to make in the atmospheric city center.
The Budapest Spring Festival ushers in this colorful season as the city sheds winter's chill. Get into the spirit by attending the fair on Vorosmarty Square. Consider taking a tour of the Parliament Building (buy tickets in advance) and visit St. Stephen's Cathedral, both important for Hungarian history.
April is a great month in which to travel to Budapest. The summer rains have yet to come, and pleasant spring weather makes sightseeing enjoyable. Landscaped squares, trees in bloom, and the activity that accompanies warmer weather show that Budapest comes alive even before high travel season hits.
You can enjoy Hungary's famous fruit brandy, palinka, year-round, but the Budapest Palinka Festival, which brings together palinka makers from all over Hungary, comes to the city during the month of May. Sample different palinkas and try other traditional Hungarian food and drink.
June is one of Budapest's rainiest months, but its event calendar is full. Check out the Summer Festival on Margaret Island or the National Gallop, which celebrates Hungary's heritage of horsemanship.
If you love hot weather, July is a good month in which to travel to Budapest. Summer festivals attract visitors to the capital from around Europe and the world.
The Sziget Festival, one of the largest music festivals in Europe, takes place in August in Budapest, and the Summer Festival on Margaret Island begins to wind down.
Budapest's September events calendar offers a Jewish festival, a Baroque festival, and the food-and-entertainment festival known as Szeptemberfeszt. Also visit an international wine festival, where local and other wines will be available to be sampled--Hungary's wine regions produce a good variety of different wines that deserve to be tried.
Fall comes to a close in Budapest during the month of October, but the beginning of the month still offers nice weather for sightseeing. Consider a visit to the thermal baths to stave off the autumn chill or take a drive through the countryside to see the fall leaves.
November in Budapest is good for shopping for Christmas gifts and enjoying cozy dinners at restaurants serving Hungarian traditional cuisine. The end of November sees the opening of the annual Christmas market, a great source for souvenirs and traditional crafts.
December in Budapest is a time for celebrating Christmas and the arrival of the New Year. Both holidays are well enjoyed in the Hungarian capital, and the city offers plenty of activities for the visitor. The Christmas market offers a great opportunity to purchase homemade crafts and gifts, and hot mulled wine is a favorite beverage served in restaurants and cafes.
 Budapest in January 
 Budapest in February 
 Budapest in March 
 Budapest in April 
 Budapest in May 
 Budapest in June 
  Budapest in July  
 Budapest in August 
 Budapest in September 
 Budapest in October 
 Budapest in November 
 Budapest in December 
Budapest is one of Europe's most photogenic capitals. Divided in two by the Danube River, many of the city's most famous sites cluster around the river. But no matter where you walk, especially if you remember to look up, you'll always find some unique detail that captures your imagination. Once your camera has run out of battery or you're done with sightseeing (whichever happens first),you can take a dip in one of the stunning thermal water baths or grab a drink at an iconic ruin bar. Whether you're into architecture with a touch of drama, old-world cafes, thriving nightlife, grand thermal spas, or even communist history, Budapest has something for you. You'll find history etched into its bullet-scarred walls and life buzzing around its boulevards and promenades downtown.
Here’s a complete guide about when to visit, where to stay, what to do, how you can get around, and more on your visit to the Hungarian capital.
First-time visitors should head up to Castle Hill for fantastic views over the river and the charming historic streets winding around Fisherman’s Bastion and the Royal Palace of Buda Castle. Once you’re done with the historic Buda side, cross the Chain Bridge on foot to downtown Pest for St. Stephen’s Basilica and the Hungarian Parliament.
Art lovers and history buffs have no shortage of excellent museums to explore. Be sure to make a stop at Memento Park—a large park where communist statues go to die. If you enjoy nature, head up to the Buda Hills for hiking, go for a ride on the Children's Railway, or explore some of the many caves running below the city like the Pálvölgyi or Szemlőhegy Caves. Some things every visitor to Budapest should do are:
Get more information about activities in Budapest with our guides to the city's best museums and top things to do in Budapest.
Hungarian food is rich and hearty. Meat, especially pork, dominates the cuisine, which tends to be spicier than its Central European counterparts. Most typically Hungarian dishes like goulash, catfish soup, or chicken paprikás bear a deep red color thanks to their generous paprika content. Other specialties you may want to try is street food like lángos, a deep-fried savory dough topped with cheese and sour cream, or chimney cake, a grilled brioche-like cake rolled in cinnamon, cocoa powder, or ground nuts. If you have a sweet tooth, try some of the amazing cakes in one of the historic cafes or confectionaries. The chocolate-caramel Dobos cake or the nutty Eszterházy cake won’t disappoint.
When it comes to drinking, Hungary has got you covered. Hungarian wine is gaining a solid reputation, and it’s incredibly diverse. You have the famous sweet dessert wines from the Tokaj region, the dry, crisp whites from Badacsony, and the rich reds from Eger or Villány. The beer scene is growing, so if you want to sample some Hungarian craft beers, an excellent place to try them is Élesztő, a ruin bar with 20 local brews on tap. If you’re feeling adventurous, maybe you can try some pálinka, a potent fruit brandy, or Unicum, a bitter herbal liqueur.
Budapest has six Michelin-starred restaurants and plenty other award-winning dining establishments. You can still find more traditional restaurants scattered around town, but street food, craft burgers, and chic bistros are popping up more and more in Budapest’s Inner City and Jewish Quarter.
For more culinary inspiration, see our guide to the top restaurants in Budapest and Hungarian dishes you should try.
Castle District: The Castle District puts you among some of the city’s most famous sites and charming bistros. If you like to sleep on quiet streets, this is a perfect choice as there are no clubs and very few late-night bars up here.
Inner City: You’ll find the best hotels in the Inner City in Pest’s V District. Not only will you be around the top shops and restaurants, but you can find the best hotels like the Four Seasons, the Aria Hotel, the Intercontinental, the Kempinski, and more in this district. You are also only minutes away from the main transport hubs, like Deák Ferenc tér, where you even have a direct bus to the airport.
Jewish District: If you want to be at the heart of the action, and don't mind having late nights, then you may want to stay in the Jewish District. You’ll find many hostels here—most of them party hostels —so it’s a part of town buzzing with youthful energy. Some of the hostels even have their own ruin bar.
Palace District: The Palace District is close enough to downtown to be within walking distance from the major sites, but is also a much quieter neighborhood than the neighboring Jewish District.
For more about accommodations, see our guide to the city's best hotels.
Budapest’s Ferenc Liszt International Airport (BUD) offers direct flights to and from New York, Philadelphia, and Chicago via major airlines like LOT Polish Airlines and American Airlines.
From the airport, it's a 30 to 40 minute drive to downtown. You can rent a car, use a rideshare like Bolt, hail a taxi, or take the downtown shuttle, which is $20 per passenger and leaves approximately within 20 minutes of request. You can also take the 200E bus directly to Deák Ferenc Tér in the center of the city, or take the 100E bus which connects you to the metro line 3.
  Planning Your Trip to Budapest   
  Things to Do  
  What to Eat and Drink  
  Where to Stay  
  Getting There  
  Money-Saving Tips  
Language: Hungarian 
Currency: Hungarian Forint 
Getting Around: Budapest has an excellent public transportation system, which makes it very easy to get around. It’s also a very walkable city, so if you are centrally located you can walk everywhere. Otherwise, you can take the metro, tram, bus, or even the local public transport boat, which runs along the Danube in the summer. 
Travel Tip: Make sure you validate your single tickets correctly when you get on the tram, bus, or metro. Plainclothes ticket inspectors may fine you if you’re caught with an unvalidated ticket.
Take a boat up the Danube. See the city from the river on a boat tour or take the local public transport boat for a couple of dollars.
Bar hop in the Jewish District. Explore Budapest’s most famous ruin bars by night. Grab a drink at Szimpla, the first ruin bar of the city, and head over to nearby Instant, Fogas Kert, or Anker’t.
If you’re planning to use public transport a lot and hit many of the museums, you may want to invest in a Budapest Card. This card gives you free public transport access, discounts or free entry to some of the museums and even the entrance to the Lukács Baths. 
Go for the lunch menu. Most restaurants, even the high-end ones, will offer a good value lunch menu. You can also eat out pretty cheaply by opting for street food or picking up a picnic from one of the local market halls and heading over to the Danube Banks or one of the many parks in the city. 
Take one of the free walking tours in the city center to get your bearings and learn a little about Budapest’s history.
Autumn is one of the most popular travel seasons in Budapest, Hungary. The summer heat fades, Hungarians celebrate national beverages and food with annual festivals, most of the tourists have returned home, and, as always, plenty of attractions and activities await.
If you've never been to Budapest, do make a point of seeing its major sights, including Buda Castle, the Parliament Building, St. Stephan's Basilica, and Heroes' Square. Autumn is an excellent time to tour the Hungarian capital.
It's easy to get to Budapest for your fall vacation. International flights arrive at the Ferihegy Airport. There's an airport minibus with service to most hotels, or you can take public transportation. It's also possible to reach Budapest by train from other European destination cities, as well as by bus, and, from Vienna, hydrofoil.
September starts out with average highs around 76 degrees Fahrenheit—that falls to afternoon highs around 67 F by the end of the month. Lows range from 56 degrees Fahrenheit to 48 degrees F by the end of the month. It's still nice during the early evening, so eating alfresco is still possible even though summer is on the wane. The average September rainfall total is only about 1.5 inches, so you will not likely need an umbrella.
October weather starts out warm, which is ideal for walking and sightseeing and by the end of the month is trending toward chilly. Afternoon highs average 61 degrees Fahrenheit, with average nighttime lows around 45 degrees.
November still is warmer than in many Central European destinations, but you'll still want to pack plenty of layers. With an average high of 46 degrees Fahrenheit, you'll be wearing a jacket to visit the early Christmas markets.
Fall Average High and Low Temperatures
September: 
October: 
November: 
A nip in the air in the evenings or during rainy weather signals the end of summer in the first part of fall, and you'll notice that temperature averages gradually drop the closer the calendar moves towards November. Even if you travel towards the beginning of the season, remember a sweater or light jacket to keep off the chill in the evenings. You'll need long sleeves and jackets to travel deeper into autumn.
Most travelers pack layers. This provides the most flexibility as weather changes. Start with technical T-shirts or light shirts followed by a fleece vest or light fleece jacket. Especially toward the end of fall, you'll need a regular warm jacket as your outerwear piece. It's always wise that your outerwear is either water-resistant or waterproof in case of rain.
Bring comfortable walking shoes for spending a day at festivals or touring the old sections of Budapest.
In Budapest, fall is time for harvest festivals as well as cultural and religious events. Look forward to good food, contemporary art, and traditional events.
  Budapest Weather in Fall  
  What to Pack  
  Fall Events in Budapest  
  Fall Travel Tips  
Beginning of Month - 76 degrees Fahrenheit (24 degrees Celsius) /56 degrees Fahrenheit (13 degrees Celsius)
End of Month - 67 degrees Fahrenheit (19 degrees Celsius) / 48 degrees Fahrenheit (9 degrees Celsius)
Beginning of Month - 67 degrees Fahrenheit (19 degrees Celsius) / 48 degrees Fahrenheit (9 degrees Celsius)
End of Month - 54 degrees Fahrenheit (12 degrees Celsius) / 38 degrees Fahrenheit (3 degrees Celsius)
Beginning of Month - 53 degrees Fahrenheit (12 degrees Celsius) / 38 degrees Fahrenheit (3 degrees Celsius)
End of Month - 42 degrees Fahrenheit (6 degrees Celsius) / 32 degrees Fahrenheit (0 degrees Celsius)
The Budapest International Wine Festival: Head to Buda Castle in September for the Budapest Wine Festival. The festival features a Harvest Procession in the Buda Castle, and many concerts and performances. Local and International still and sparkling wines are featured during this four-day festival.
Palinka and Sausage Festival: Taking place in October, this festival invites you to taste wares from more than 20 pálinka (Hungarian brandy) distillers and savor bites from a full range of sausage makers. Held on Castle Hill, the festival provides entertainment as well as food and beverages.
Festival of New Wine and Cheese: Toward the end of November, it's time to taste the season's first new wines. Winemakers from all over Hungary bring their new wines to this public tasting and pair them with artisanal cheeses during the event located at Vajdahunyad Castle in the city park.
Jewish Summer Festival: A festival of Jewish culture runs through the beginning of September in Budapest. Enjoy music, dance, fine art, books, and films. The center of the event is the spectacular Great Synagogue, the second largest Synagogue in the world.
Budapest Baroque Festival: Usually, this festival lasts from mid-September to early October. Enjoy Baroque music in a variety of settings.
Café Budapest Contemporary Art Festival: This two-week festival is focused on contemporary arts including such diverse forms as film, dance, music, photography, and theater. The festival is held annually in mid-October and takes place in about 20 different venues.
All Saints' Day: Annually on November 1st, Hungarians visit the graveyards to pay their respects to their deceased family members, leave beautiful floral arrangements and bouquets and, at night, light candles of remembrance.
Budapest Christmas Market: At the end of November, when winter weather may have already settled into the bones of the city, the annual Budapest Christmas Market opens. Vendors at this colorful market sell food and drink, handmade gifts, and holiday decorations.
Budapest is a large city, so consider the location as well as the budget when you research hotels for your visit. Public transportation is plentiful, but you may want to be within a short distance of shops, eateries, or attractions. Also remember that Budapest has two sides, Buda and Pest, divided by the Danube River. Sights such as Buda Castle are on the Budapest side, while Heroes' Square and the Parliament Building are on the Pest side of the city.

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Best Overall: Aria Hotel Budapest by Library Hotel Collection — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"The service is flawless and the neo-classical façade contrasts beautifully with the hotel’s contemporary music-themed decor."
Best Budget: 12 Revay Hotel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"You can walk to many of the city’s top attractions - saving you valuable money on public transport."
Best Boutique: Baltazár Budapest — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"A quirky design boutique located in the city’s historic Castle District."
Best for Families: Bo33 Hotel Family & Suites — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Ideally located halfway between the cultural attractions of the Inner City and the family friendly City Park (with its museums and Budapest Zoo)."
Best for Romance: Hotel Moments Budapest — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Housed in a beautifully restored 19th-century building, the hotel’s glass-roofed atrium sets the scene for a truly special stay."
Best Luxury: Four Seasons Hotel Gresham Palace — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"The benchmark for five-star hotels in Budapest."
Best Business: Kempinski Hotel Corvinus Budapest — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"The ideal choice for the well-heeled corporate traveler."
Best B&B: Brody House — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Fall in love with a whimsical blend of vintage furniture and contemporary art, enhanced by useful amenities."
Courtesy of Aria Hotel 
Located a few steps from St. Stephen’s Basilica, five-star Aria Hotel Budapest is the top-rated hotel in the city. The service is flawless and the neo-classical façade contrasts beautifully with the hotel’s contemporary music-themed decor. Think piano key floor tiles in the central courtyard and cartoon renderings of iconic musicians throughout. Each of the 49 rooms and suites includes a King bed, a Nespresso coffee machine, an iPad and a 55” TV with surround sound.
Dining options include acclaimed farm-to-table restaurant Stradivari and High Note Skybar, the only year-round roof garden in Budapest. Here, you can savor designer cocktails while admiring stunning 360-degree views of the illuminated basilica domes. Breakfast is included and there’s a complimentary wine and cheese reception every afternoon. Help yourself to free tea and coffee in the Music Library; or spend an indulgent day at the subterranean spa. Facilities include a heated pool and an exercise room.
Courtesy of 12 Revay Hotel
For a similar location at a fraction of the price, book the 12 Revay Hotel. Located in between St. Stephen’s Basilica and the Hungarian State Opera House, you can walk to many of the city’s top attractions - saving you valuable money on public transport. If you do want to explore further afield, there are bus and metro stations right outside. The hotel has 56 rooms to choose from, all of which are clean and comfortable with stylish furnishings parquet flooring.
The Standard Double Room is the best choice for budget travelers. Amenities include an ensuite bathroom, a kettle with complimentary tea and coffee and an LCD TV. And you can save money on data by logging on to the free Wi-Fi instead. A generous breakfast buffet is served each morning, and although it costs €10 per person, you’ll receive a 20 percent discount if you book before arrival. There’s also a 24-hour bar.
Courtesy of Baltazar Budapest
Owned by a family of top restaurateurs, Baltazár Budapest is a quirky design boutique located in the city’s historic Castle District, near the Fisherman’s Bastion and Matthias Church. It is known for its inviting atmosphere, as well as its bohemian design theme that draws inspiration from the opulent, the elegant and the delightfully avant-garde. Choose from 11 uniquely decorated rooms and suites, each with down duvets and a limestone bathroom complete with a designer rain shower.
In-room technology includes adjustable mood lighting, a smartphone-connected music player and an LED TV. This boutique is particularly popular with foodies, thanks to top-rated restaurant Baltazár Grill. Here, you can order quality meats cooked to perfection on a charcoal grill imported from Spain; or sample gourmet street food. Adjacent watering hole The Wine Bar showcases the best vintages from central Europe, as well as a collection of the world’s finest gins.
Courtesy of Bo33 Hotel Family & Suites
The four-star Bo33 Hotel Family & Suites is ideally located halfway between the cultural attractions of the Inner City and the family friendly City Park (with its museums and Budapest Zoo). Hire bikes from reception for a memorable day spent sightseeing or let your little ones play in the landscaped garden. Family Rooms consist of two interconnecting ensuite rooms, providing plenty of space and ample privacy for older kids.
In-room amenities include an iPad docking station, free Wi-Fi and a 32” TV with a DVD player for cozy evenings in. The restaurant serves a champagne buffet breakfast for parents and has kid-friendly options for lunch and dinner. In the Lobby Bar, you can enjoy a quiet drink while your children play on the PlayStation. Other helpful amenities include professional babysitting, an express laundry service and a Wellness Area with massages and fitness equipment.
Courtesy of Hotel Moments Budapest
Hotel Moments Budapest enjoys a romantic location on Andrássy Avenue, a UNESCO World Heritage Site recognized for its breathtaking neo-Renaissance architecture. Housed in a beautifully restored 19th-century building, the hotel’s glass-roofed atrium sets the scene for a truly special stay. All rooms include a minibar, a satellite TV and a walk-in shower or bathtub. You can book romantic extras ranging from flower bouquets to bottles of champagne.
For honeymoon trips or milestone anniversaries, splurge on a stay in the Basilica Suite, with its private terrace views of St. Stephen’s Basilica. The hotel offers a complimentary gourmet breakfast buffet, while cozy Bistro Fine serves tasty local and international cuisine. There’s a Lounge Bar, and a sauna and fitness room perfect for quality relaxation time with your loved one.
Courtesy of Four Seasons Hotel Gresham Palace
The benchmark for five-star hotels in Budapest, Four Seasons Hotel Gresham Palace sits at the end of the Chain Bridge on the eastern bank of the Danube River. It combines Art Nouveau architecture with an atmosphere of understated grandeur. All rooms and suites offer down duvets, a marble bathroom and satellite TV. For the most decadent stay in the city, book the Budapest Royal Suite.
Expect complimentary butler service and over 1,400 square feet of opulent space, including a pantry, a dining room and a living room. KOLLÁZS Brasserie & Bar serves first-class Hungarian and international cuisine throughout the day, while The Bar & Lobby Lounge offers an elegant space for sipping martinis beneath a stunning glass cupola. Other luxuries include a spa, an indoor infinity pool and a health club.
Courtesy of Kempinski Hotel Corvinus Budapest
Conveniently located in the Inner City, five-star Kempinski Hotel Corvinus Budapest is the ideal choice for the well-heeled corporate traveler. The hotel has 10 event rooms, providing abundant meeting space for up to 450 guests. Wi-Fi is complimentary and the business center is open 24/7. In between meetings, stay in shape with a visit to the fitness center or indoor pool. There are several dining outlets, including sushi restaurant Nobu Budapest and Blue Fox The Bar - a trendy spot for post-work cocktails. All room categories include a work desk, a TV and a luxuriously comfortable bed.
Courtesy of Brody House
Situated opposite the Hungarian National Museum in Budapest’s Palace Quarter, neo-classical Brody House blends in with its elegant surroundings. Built in the 19th century, it once served as a bohemian artists’ residence. Those artists lend their names to 11 uniquely decorated rooms. Fall in love with a whimsical blend of vintage furniture and contemporary art, enhanced by useful amenities including an ensuite bathroom, free Wi-Fi and air-conditioning. Some rooms even boast a free-standing bathtub. A continental breakfast buffet is served every morning and there’s an honesty bar for evening apéritifs.
  Best Overall: Aria Hotel Budapest by Library Hotel Collection  
  Best Budget: 12 Revay Hotel  
  Best Boutique: Baltazár Budapest  
  Best for Families: Bo33 Hotel Family & Suites  
  Best for Romance: Hotel Moments Budapest  
  Best Luxury: Four Seasons Hotel Gresham Palace  
  Best Business: Kempinski Hotel Corvinus Budapest  
  Best B&B: Brody House  
The best time to visit Budapest is in the early fall (September and October) or late spring (May). Not only is the weather great, but you also get to escape the queues that come with the peak season crowds. However, Budapest has something to offer all year, even during the the hot summers and frigid winters.
Winters can plunge to sub-freezing temperatures, and sometimes it can get so cold the Danube River freezes over. Summer temperatures can go as high as 105 degrees Fahrenheit (41 degrees Celsius) making things very hot and sticky. The heat is often broken by patches of heavy downpours and summer storms, so a umbrella is a necessity during that time. You can avoid the extreme heat and cold, as well as most of the heavy rainy season if you come fall or spring.
Despite the weather, summer and Christmas tend to be the busiest seasons. Accommodation prices are higher this time of year, and you may have to deal with crowds and long lines at the city’s most popular attractions. If you do want to come during peak season, it’s a good idea to book in advance.
Cultural and culinary festivals take place across the year though some events are more popular than others. Sziget Festival—one of the largest in Europe—takes place mid-August, so if you’re planning to come during that time, you will need to book accommodation well in advance, and you will likely higher prices. The crowds also pile into the Hungarian capital in December for its magical Christmas markets.
There are various Hungarian national holidays that you may not know about, like Aug. 20, Oct. 23, and March 15. Many attractions are closed around these dates and public transport runs on reduced service.
After New Year, January is quiet, since it’s the coldest month with average temperatures of 29 degrees Fahrenheit (-2 degrees Celsius). You’ll find that crowds thin out, prices drop, and shops have more sales.
Events to check out:
Budapest gets its festive spirit back with Carnival season. Temperatures tend to be around 34 degrees Fahrenheit (1 degree Celsius), but you can get some sunnier days towards the end of the month.
Events to check out:
Spring eases its way into Budapest in March. This is still a quiet time to visit, and accommodation prices are low, so still good for those looking to do Budapest on a budget.
Events to check out:
In April, good weather arrives and trees burst into bloom. Come for spring hikes and excursions into the Buda Hills, or for the artistic calendar of events.
Events to check out:
May is a wonderful month to visit Budapest. Locals head outside to the parks, and it’s a good time to ride a boat up the Danube. Temperatures on average range from 51 degrees Fahrenheit (10 degrees Celsius) to 71 degrees Fahrenheit (21 degrees Celsius).
Events to check out:
Summer is here, and although the temperatures go up and the skies are often blue, June can be the wettest month with storms and heavy rain. But with the summer come the music festivals.
Events to check out:
July is the hottest month. Locals will grab a picnic on Margaret Island, sit out on a terrace overlooking the river to watch the sunset, or head to the crumbling “kerts,” (outdoor ruin bars) to handle the heat.
Events to check out:
August’s main highlights are the Sziget Festival and Aug. 20, Hungary’s most important national holiday, so make sure you book in advance. 
Events to check out:
September is all about wine and culture. The weather is still good enough to hang out outside without it being too hot and crowded.
Events to check out:
The plentiful, rust-colored trees make the city extremely photogenic and make October a great month to visit the city.
Events to check out:
November is a quiet time before the Christmas crowds arrive, so this is a good low season period to come. The temperatures can be chilly, and it gets dark as early as 4 p.m. once the clocks go back.
Events to check out:
This month, the festive spirit is in the air: the Christmas markets are in full swing, the ice rinks are packed, and stalls sell spicy cups of mulled wine to chase the winter blues away.
Events to check out:
  The Weather in Budapest   
  Peak Season in Budapest   
  Popular Events and Festivals   
  January  
  February  
  March  
  April  
  May  
  June  
  July   
  August   
  September   
  October   
  November   
  December   
Make the most of the New Year with a New Year’s Day concert at one of the city’s many concert halls.
Farsang, or Carnival, brings carnival doughnuts and parties to town. For the best Hungarian carnival experience, get out of Budapest and head to Mohács for the Búsójárás.
March 15 is a public holiday marking the 1848 Hungarian Revolution against the Habsburgs. There are numerous cultural events, military processions, and even free entry to some of the museums.
Architecture lovers can catch the Budapest Architecture Film Days, a film festival (films are subtitled or screened in English) focusing on documentaries concerning architecture.
Budapest Spring Fair sees stalls filled with Hungarian artisanal and handcrafted products, along with a few snacks, pop up for the month.
Art lovers will want to hit up the Budapest Art Week, with around 100 exhibitions and art events scattered around the city’s galleries and museums.
Foodies will love the Gourmet Festival, an outdoor culinary festival featuring food from Hungary’s top restaurants, top confectioners and wineries.
Take a peek behind closed doors at Budapest100, an architecture festival where normally-closed-to-the-public buildings open their doors for a weekend.
Rosalia is a springtime rose and champagne festival in City Park that’s great for wine lovers.
Get hunting for antiques at the Falk Art Forum, a street-wide festival on the antique-shop-lined Falk Miksa Street. 
Kolorado Festival takes place in the Buda Hills. It’s a growing music festival with local and international bands and DJs.
Culture vultures take advantage of the Night of the Museums when Budapest’s museums open late night with events, concerts and free entry.
The rainbow flags come out for Budapest Pride at the beginning of July. Pride Week accompanies the parade with a week-long cultural festival featuring film screenings, concerts, parties, and discussions.
The Formula 1 Hungarian Grand Prix draws the crowds to the Hungaroring Grand Prix just outside the capital.
Weekends in July usually mean it’s time for the Szabihíd Liberty Bridge street parties. The entire bridge is closed off to traffic, and people take over with early morning yoga sessions, afternoon concerts, evening parties, picnics, and even aerial circus acts.
Thousands flock to Óbuda Island for one of Europe’s largest music festivals, Sziget Festival. Previous headliners have included Muse, Lana del Rey, Rihanna, and more. If you plan on coming, you’ll want to get tickets in advance. 
Aug. 20 is affectionately dubbed as “Hungary’s Birthday,” marking the founding of the country by King St. Stephen. Expect folk festivals, open-air concerts, and a huge fireworks display. 
Budapest Short International Film Festival showcases work from young filmmakers in the region. All films are subtitled in English. 
Head up to Buda Castle for the Budapest Wine Festival and enjoy a few glasses of Hungarian wine with one of the best views in the city.
The Jewish Cultural Festival kicks off early September with theater shows, concerts, and performances in various locations.
Art Market Budapest at the beginning of October celebrates contemporary art, sculpture, photography, and installations from local and international galleries.
Budapest Design Week is an interactive festival showcasing fashion and design through a range of events from workshops to exhibitions in various locations.
CAFe Budapest Contemporary Arts Festival hits up various venues with concerts, exhibitions, and productions across the city and multiple genres. 
Oct. 23 is a national holiday commemorating the 1956 revolution. There are cultural events and programs across the city.
All Saints’ Day on Nov. 1 is a national holiday when Hungarians go to the cemeteries to commemorate their loved ones with candles and flowers.
Food lovers may want to make a reservation a Hungarian restaurant for St. Martin’s Day (Nov. 11) when goose and new wine feature on the menu.
The Christmas Markets are the ultimate highlight. You’ll find these scattered around the city with stalls selling artisanal gifts, local delicacies, mulled wine, and hot-off-the-grill chimney cakes.
While there's lots to ​explore in Budapest, there are tons of destinations within easy reach of the city that are perfect for day trips, from castles and palaces to one of the world's top wine regions.
Around 55 miles northeast of Budapest in a valley of the Cserhát mountains, Hollókő is a traditional Hungarian village and a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The old part of the village is a conservation area of 55 houses that have been rebuilt in timber and stone to reflect the original Palóc rural architecture. The protected zone includes the 12th-century castle ruins that sit on a hilltop above the village. It's scooped the title of Hungary's Most Beautiful Village on several occasions and there are a number of festivals throughout the year that celebrate local traditions and craftsmanship.
How to Get to Hollókő From Budapest: The easiest way to travel to and from Hollókő is by car. The journey takes around 90 minutes. Alternatively, there's a direct bus service from Puskás Ferenc Stadion (on the blue metro line). The journey takes around two hours and there's one service per day during the week and two services at the weekend.
Between Budapest and Lake Balaton, Székesfehérvár is one of Hungary's oldest towns. It served as the country's capital in the Middle Ages and parts of its iconic cathedral date back to 1235. The colorful town features beautiful baroque buildings and there are plenty of cultural attractions to explore including the King St Stephen Museum, the Toy Museum and the Istvan Csok Art Gallery. Just outside the center, Bory Castle is worth seeing. It was built by architect and sculptor, Jeno Bory between 1923 and 1959 as a loving tribute to his wife. The castle features a range of architectural styles including Romanesque and Gothic and it's set in beautiful sculpture-studded gardens.
How to Get to Székesfehérvár From Budapest: There are frequent trains that run from Budapest-Déli station. The journey takes between 65 and 80 minutes. There's also a direct bus service from Budapest's Népliget station. The journey time is around 80 minutes. Ticket prices are roughly the same for the train and bus however the bus station is closer to the center of town than the train station.
While Lake Balaton is Hungary's largest lake (and the biggest in Central Europe), it's a little far from Budapest for a day trip. Lake Velence however is just a 45-minute drive away and a great spot to spend a few sunny hours by the water. The warm shallow waters can reach temperatures of 26-28 degrees celsius in the summer months and there are several beaches lining the shore. Reeds cover almost a third of the lake's surface making it attractive to rare water birds and fish. Activities include bike riding, kayaking and windsurfing and there's a thermal spa at Agárd.
How to Get to Lake Velence From Budapest: There's a direct train service from Budapest-Déli station to Gárdony that takes around 45 minutes. One way tickets cost around $5. If you're hiring a car, the journey takes around 45 minutes.
Less than an hour northeast of Budapest, Gödöllő is home to a magnificent ​royal palace that once served as the summer residence of Austrian Emperor, Franz Josef. Built in the mid 18th century, it's Hungary's largest baroque manor house and was a favorite spot of the much-loved Empress Elizabeth (better known as Sissi). It served as a barracks for Soviet and Hungarian troops under communism until it underwent a renovation in the mid-1980s and you can now enjoy wandering around the lavish interiors which have been restored to reflect the imperial era. There's also a beautiful botanical garden to explore that covers an area of 190 hectares. 
How to Get to Gödöllő From Budapest: There's a frequent HÉV suburban train service from Budapest's Örs vezér tere station or an hourly bus service from Puskás Ferenc Stadion. Both journeys take around 45 minutes.
North of Budapest, the Danube Bend (Dunakanyar) is the most scenic stretch of Europe's second longest river. The best way to explore it is on a boat trip when the river's at high tide between May and September. Traveling from the capital you'll pass picturesque peaks and lush riverbanks. On the west bank you can visit some of Hungary's oldest settlements: Szentendre, a small baroque town with cobblestone streets lined with art galleries, museums and shops; Visegrád, with its 13th-century hilltop citadel and Renaissance palace ruins, and Esztergom, the country's former capital city, home to Hungary's largest cathedral.
How to Get to the Danube Bend From Budapest: There are a number of guided boat tours that depart from Budapest between May and September and visit Esztergom, Visegrad, and Szentendre. You can expect to pay around $50 for a full-day tour including lunch. Alternatively, there's a train service from Budapest's Nyugati station that runs to Esztergom via Vác and Visegrád and takes up to 90 minutes. Or you can catch bus 880 BK-SZ from Budapest's Újpest Station which runs to Szentendre, Visegrád, and Esztergom. Hiring a car would give you the most flexibility if you want to explore each town independently.
At the foot of the Bükk Mountains around 85 miles northeast of Budapest, Eger is one of the country's best-known wine regions. The area's winemaking traditions date back to the 11th century and many of the ancient cellars are carved into limestone rock that form a network of underground tunnels. The most famous wine produced in the region is Bull's Blood (Egri Bikavér), a blend of three or more grapes that have matured in oak barrels for at least 12 months. Head to Szépasszony-völgy (The Valley of the Beautiful Women) to hop between cellars for tours and tastings.
How to Get to Eger From Budapest: A direct coach service runs from Puskás Ferenc Stadion to Eger. The journey takes about two hours and a one way ticket costs around $10. Alternatively, you can take a direct train from Keleti train station. The train also takes around two hours but the train station is on the edge of town whereas the bus station is right in the center. If you're hiring a car, the journey should take just under two hours.
  Hollókő  
  Székesfehérvár  
  Lake Velence  
  Gödöllő  
  The Danube Bend  
  Eger  
Visiting Budapest in the fall is a great time to experience the beauty of this European capital, minus the crowds of summer. With more than 100 museums and galleries and easily walkable streets, Budapest in November is a great time for visitors to walk the streets and visit the museums.
Budapest's November temperatures don't tend to be as cold as those in other popular Central European destinations, but you'll still want to pack plenty of layers. With an average high of 46 degrees Fahrenheit, you'll want a warm jacket for that trip to the end-of-November Christmas market in Budapest. While Christmas markets are revving up, November in Budapest is time for other celebrations too, including the feast day of St. Martin, held on November 11. Expect many of the city's restaurants to serve traditional duck or goose, paired alongside Hungarian wine.
Here's information for what to do and see and what to pack for a late autumn trip to Budapest, the capital of Hungary.
Budapest is chilly in November, but not freezing. With enough layers, you can enjoy a brisk walk in the crisp autumn air. Temperatures drop in November, but they will stay above freezing during the day.
It's usually clear in November with an average of eight hours of sunshine, though those rays dwindle down from more than nine hours of sun at the beginning of the month, giving a hint of the three dark months of winter to come. As the month progresses, you'll see more clouds and an increased chance of rain. The total amount of rain in November is, on average, 2.5 inches, spread out across 13 days.
Budapest's November temperatures don't tend to be as cold as those in other popular central European destinations, but you'll still want to pack layers and have a waterproof jacket handy at all times. A warm hat, gloves, and scarf are useful on the colder days. Since it is usually sunny and bright, a pair of sunglasses and sunscreen for your face will be necessary if you plan to be outdoors for any length of time.
The best way to get to know Budapest is by walking, so a good pair of walking shoes are in order. You'll most likely be on foot from one attraction to the next as Budapest has an excellent public transportation system including the bus, trams, trolleys, and four underground lines.
Budapest is a major city so evening dress comparable to what is worn in most European capital cities should suffice for afternoons and evenings in cafes, bars, and restaurants.
Budapest's thermal baths are a draw so you'll need a swimsuit and one of those quick-drying towels. A collapsible travel water bottle will be useful.
The outdoor cafes are closed, and you won't see as many people leisurely strolling the avenues, but plenty is happening in Budapest in autumn.
Fall offers visitors a range of things to do and experience. You may want to do some special shopping or experience a thermal bath.
There are other great times to visit Budapest, so the guide to the city's monthly weather and events will help you decide on the best month for your visit.
  Budapest Weather in November  
  What to Pack  
  November Events in Budapest  
  November Travel Tips  
Average high: 46 degrees Fahrenheit (8 degrees Celsius)
Average low: 37 degrees Fahrenheit (3 degrees Celsius)
November 1 and 2 are All Saints' Day and All Souls Day in Hungary. Those who have passed are honored. Hungarians go to cemeteries with bright yellow chrysanthemums and light red votive candles to decorate the graves of their dearly departed. Sometimes they leave food. You'll see colorful flower vendors lining the streets around cemeteries.
The Budapest International Guitar Competition takes place at the beginning of November and is open to guitarists of all levels.
November 11 is St. Martin’s Day in Hungary (Márton nap). It's a traditional feast day celebrated by tasting the new wine and eating goose. Throughout November, many restaurants offer special St. Martin’s Day dishes and winemakers provide tastings of their first new wines.
At the Hungarian Open Air Museum at the annual St. Martin's Day event you can see rural rituals of St. Martin’s Day, craft-making, and folk dance performances. The event features wine-tasting and goose-based cuisine. You can also enjoy the St. Martin’s Day festivities at the annual St. Martin’s Day Festival held at Vajdahunyad Castle.
The New Wine and Cheese Festival takes place annually toward the end of November. The entrance fee includes a tasting glass and free admission to the Museum of Hungarian Agriculture, which hosts the event.
The Budapest Advent and Christmas Fair on Vörösmarty Square is ranked as one of the top 10 most beautiful markets in Europe. It starts at the end of November.
Ready to stock up on Christmas gifts? Christmas markets open up in mid-November. Vörösmarty Square is among the best and the largest.
Budapest's famed open-air parties move indoors in the winter months, including a famous annual party at the Széchenyi Thermal Bath.
Given November's chilly temperatures, it's a perfect time to explore one of the city's 15 thermal baths and spas. The most famous are the Gellert and Széchenyi Thermal Baths.
You may not need any particular reason to visit Budapest, the Hungarian capital city. However, if you’re weighing a visit to Budapest against a visit to another European destination, consider the following reasons why Budapest is a good choice:
Many travelers talk about Budapest’s “faded beauty,” which is present in its multi-story buildings that have lacked continuous renovation or recent restoration. Several architectural styles are represented. For example, the Parliament Building is an elegant example of Neo-Gothic architecture, while Budapest’s Art Nouveau examples add to its turn-of-the-century charm.
If you like Hungarian food (or any other type of food, for that matter), Budapest offers the opportunity to feast. Try goulash soup and other traditional national dishes. Also, don’t forget about Hungarian wine and spirits. Palinka is the fruit brandy raved about by Hungarians and produced in a variety of flavors. If you prefer wine, then the variants from the wine regions surrounding Budapest, offered in restaurants, pubs, and wine bars will keep your taste buds occupied.
Budapest hosts an array of festivals throughout the year, from festivals celebrating traditional food and drink, to music festivals, cultural festivals, film festivals, and more. The Summer Festival acts as a significant attraction during the hottest months of the year, while a Christmas market sees visits from Santa Claus and holiday decorations, food, and gifts.
Hungary knows how to capitalize on its beautiful, colorful handmade and traditional products. Hungarian embroidery is one of the most popular souvenirs with its colorful flowers on a plain background. But visitors frequently leave Hungary with bags full of paprika, porcelain, marzipan, fashion accessories, or artisan jewelry.
Budapest's top sights are truly impressive. From the lavish interior of the State Opera House to the restrained gaudiness of the Parliament Building, to the grandeur of St. Stephan’s Basilica, to the whimsical and elegant Art Nouveau structures, even on a rainy day, Budapest can offer spectacular photo opportunities.
If you’re in need of relaxation but can’t combine your trip to the city with a stay in a spa town, consider a visit to one of Budapest’s multiple thermal baths. These baths have a long-established tradition, and many offer additional services, such as massage and wellness treatments.
Budapest is steeped in history, and it can be felt from the first moment. This sprawling city has several centers, and Buda and Pest (which were joined to form the contemporary city) each have innumerable stories to tell. You can visit Roman ruins, the top of Castle Hill, or Jewish District to get a feel for the history of the area and its people. Or while away a few hours in one of Budapest's historic cafes.
Budapest, protected by mountains, offers fine weather even when other parts of Europe are less pleasant. The temperature here is warmer, precipitation milder. Though Budapest can be hot in the summer, in the shoulder seasons like April and November, it is pleasant and enjoyable—especially if you’re visiting from someplace that is typically colder!
Hungary is not the cheapest destination in Eastern Europe, but it also doesn’t boast Western European prices. Enjoy good food and drink, entrance into attractions, and room and board for affordable prices that will allow you to maximize your budget for the best experience.
Hungary’s other regions can be visited on a day trip from Budapest. For example, Lake Balaton is only about an hour’s drive south of the capital. You can visit wine regions, small villages, castles, parks, and other attractions while maintaining a base in the capital city.
  Architecture  
  Food and Drink  
  Festivals  
  Souvenir Shopping  
  Sights  
  Thermal Baths  
  History  
  Weather  
  Price  
  Proximity to Other Parts of Hungary  
Budapest offers the perfect blend of complex history, vibrant nightlife, and stunning architecture. Whether you want to drink in one of their famous ruin bars, soak in a thermal bath, or get off the beaten track, we have prepared a starter kit for your trip to Budapest. 
From must-see sights to unusual attractions, get to know the Hungarian capital and its most exciting places with our picks for the best things to do in Budapest.
The Hungarian Parliament is one of Budapest’s most famous landmarks. Although you can spend hours admiring the exterior in all its intricate details, try to get on a guided tour to look around inside. You’ll see the gold-gilded staircase, the 1,000-year-old crown jewels, parliamentary rooms, and more. Just take the tram number 2 to Országház látogatóközpont or metro 2 to Kossuth Lajos tér and head to the visitor’s center (open 8 a.m. to 4 p.m). Book a tour online (minimum four days head) before going so you can guarantee a spot.
Courtesy of Szimpla Kert 
Pay a visit to Budapest’s most famous ruin bar. Szimpla Kert resides in a dilapidated apartment block in the Jewish Quarter, decked out with mismatched furniture, fairy lights, art, and graffiti-colored walls. It’s packed on the weekends, but you can escape the crowds and bachelor parties if you come on a weeknight or in the afternoon to soak in the atmosphere of this quirky bar.
See Budapest the way it’s meant to be seen: from the river. You can book on a boat tour like Legenda, for a relaxed sightseeing or dinner cruise as the city floats by. Take the public transport boat run by the BKK for a couple of dollars to see the city from the water on a budget.
There are hundreds of caves running under the city that have been carved out by thermal water. If you need an adrenaline fix, you can even go on a spelunking adventure with Caving Under Budapest. However, if you don’t want to get down and dirty on your hands and knees, you can visit the show caves at the Szemlőhegy or Pálvölgyi Caves.
No trip to Budapest is complete without a trip to one of the thermal baths. The Gellért Thermal Baths are an art nouveau jewel with thermal bath halls clad with turquoise mosaics. There is also a colonnaded swimming pool and an outdoor pool with a wave machine that shakes things up on the hour. Just head to the entrance behind the Gellért Hotel on Kelenhegyi út. The baths are open every day from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m.
The Danube is the heart of the city, and no trip to Budapest is complete without a stroll on the Danube Promenade to take in the view. You can stroll along the Pest side for amazing views of the Royal Palace of Buda Castle and Gellért Hill, and on the Buda side for the Hungarian Parliament. Strolling is 100 percent free, so there’s no reason not to do it. 
St. Stephen’s Basilica is another must-see landmark. Still, the best way to enjoy this stunning cathedral is to head up to the dome for 360-degree views over the city from its viewing platform. The Basilica is on Szent István tér, and the panorama lookout is open October to June from 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and from July through September 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.  
Budapest is home to one of the world’s most beautiful cafes, with twisted marble columns, frescoes, and liberal lashings of gold leaf. There is usually a line out the door at the New York Café, so it’s a good idea to book a table or come early morning for a weekday. It is pricey, but you’re paying for the opulent location rather than the coffee. However, it’s not every day you have the chance to sip in surroundings such as these. Take tram 4 or 6 to Wesselényi utca.
Fisherman’s Bastion is one of the top spots in the city for a panoramic selfie, and it’s easy to see why. This neo-Gothic lookout overlooks the river and the Hungarian Parliament from the Castle Hill in Buda and offers the most romantic views over the city. The perfect spot for a photo or you can just take in the view. Come early in the morning when the crowds are minimal. 
Ride into the Buda Hills on this nostalgic railway line staffed by school-age children (the drivers and engineers being the exception though). The Children’s Railway began life as a communist initiative to encourage children to learn work ethic, but today it runs without the socialist ideology yet keeps its retro feel. Take tram 56 to Hűvösvölgy or tram 60 to Széchenyi-hegy and ride from one end to the other. 
Courtesy of Memento Park 
Want to know where communist statues go to die? Then trek out to this surreal statue park in the suburbs to visit these old communist monuments from statues of Lenin to Stalin’s boots and giant bronze propaganda pieces. You can take the 150 bus from Újbuda-Központ (which you can reach with metro or tram 4) to the Memento Park stop. Alternatively, you can take the 101B or 101E from the Kelenföld train station (reached by metro 4, tram 49 or 19).
If you're interested in knowing more about Hungary's most famous bitter liqueur, pay a visit to the Zwack Unicum Factory Museum and Visitor's Point. You won't just learn about Unicum—you'll also sample it straight from the barrel and may get a sneak peek of what goes into a bottle. Take tram number 2 to Haller utca/Soroksári út. 
Hungarians are famous for baking for delicious cakes. If you want to enjoy a classic cake in decadent surroundings, you can't beat the Gerbeaud Cafe on Vörösmarty tér. Velvet drapes, marble tables, and delicious cakes await. Try their Dobos torta, a chocolate cake topped with hard caramel, or the eponymous Gerbeaud slice, a cake made with ground walnuts, apricot jam, shortcrust pastry, and chocolate. 
The Great Synagogue at Dohány utca is the largest synagogue in Europe and one of the largest in the world. Take a tour inside to see the colorful interior, grand organ, and rose window. The enclosed grounds include the Hungarian Jewish Museum and Archives. There is a cemetery left behind from the Holocaust, and the moving Tree of Life Memorial in the garden, where thousands of victims' names are inscribed on the leaves. 
Pay a visit to this stunning 19th-century market hall. You can pick up packs of paprika powder, canned goose liver, Tokaj wine, and other yummies on the ground floor, or head up to the mezzanine level for some folk art. Or just come to look around, especially in the mornings when it’s quiet. The market is next to the Fővam tér metro 4 station and tram 2, 47, 48, 49 stop. 
Budapest is the home of the first-ever live room escape game, and you can get locked in where it all started at ParaPark. This basement room escape game lies under a lesser-known ruin bar in Vajdahunyad utca in the VIII District. Come and get locked in a code-breaking themed game or a 1990s detective theme. 
When winter hits, head up to City Park for one of the most beautiful ice rinks in Europe. Skate over a drained lake overlooking Vajdahunyad Castle, which is at its most beautiful when it’s lit up at night in the snow. You can rent skates at the ice rink, so don’t worry about leaving the skates at home. You can get to city park ice rink by taking metro line 1 to Hősök tere or Széchenyi Fűrdo.
 
titoslack / Getty Images 
The Turks occupied Buda for 150 years. Other than the baths, little remains from the Ottomans, which is what makes this dervish saint's tomb so interesting. Gül Baba's tomb is a curiosity that doesn't just give you a peek into Ottoman Budapest through its museum and mausoleum but also has fantastic views over the river. Get off at the Lukács baths and take the steep Gül Baba utca up the hill.  
  Take a Tour of the Hungarian Parliament Building  
  Go for a Drink in Szimpla Kert  
  Ride a Boat on the Danube  
  Go Spelunking Under Budapest  
  Relax at the Gellért Thermal Baths  
  Walk Along the Danube Promenade  
  Climb Up to the Dome of St. Stephen’s Basilica  
  Drink a Coffee at the New York Café  
  Take in the View From Fisherman’s Bastion  
  Ride the Children’s Railway into the Buda Hills  
  Explore Communist History in Memento Park  
  Drink Unicum at the Zwack Museum and Visitor’s Point  
  Eat a Cake at Gerbeaud  
  Visit the Great Synagogue  
  Go Shopping at the Central Market Hall  
  Play a Game at the World’s First Room Escape Game  
  Go Ice Skating in City Park  
  Discover Budapest’s Ottoman History at the Tomb of Gül Baba  
Perched on the Danube River, a visit to this Hungarian city is like two trips in one: Buda, and Pest. While the city has a history that dates back to Roman times, it wasn't officially formed until 1873, when Buda, Pest, and Òbuda combined. Since then, the city has become Hungary's largest and most popular.
The historic city boasts incredible architecture, museums, cafés, and restaurants that make it a great destination year-round. While winters are cold, for many residents of Budapest, February is all about discovering fun ways to avoid the cold while soaking in the culture of the city, and one of the best ways to do this is to visit one of the many quirky pubs, bars, and restaurants in Budapest.
Read on for more information about the weather in Budapest, what to pack, and what events you shouldn't miss.
Budapest enjoys slightly warmer temperatures than some other popular destinations in East Central Europe, but a chill still lingers in the air during February.
Across the board, winter, which runs from December until early March, is the coldest and gloomiest time of year. Budapest receives a lot of snowfall every year, with sometimes as much as 15 inches falling in a single day. Nighttime temperatures of 5 degrees Fahrenheit (-15 degrees Celsius) are typical.
As with travel in most of Eastern Europe during this cold season, you should pack accordingly for Budapest's unpredictable winter weather. Sweaters, base layers, and other items of clothing that can be layered are a good idea for the freezing cold, in addition to waterproof clothing. A down coat which can be compressed in your suitcase is a good option. In general, you will want to pack:
With all of Budapest's museums, castles, famous bridges, and cafés, you'll stay busy in Budapest—even in February.
  February Weather in Budapest  
  What to Pack  
  February Events in Budapest  
  February Travel Tips  
Average high: 39 degrees Fahrenheit (4 degrees Celsius)
Average low: 28 degrees Fahrenheit (-2 degrees Celsius)
Thermal underwear
Long-sleeved tops
Jeans/pants
A very warm jacket/coat
Wool socks
Warm boots
Winter accessories, such as a hat, gloves, and a scarf
Celebrate Valentine's Day in Budapest on February 14 with a romantic dinner, a concert, or a trip to the thermal baths.
Budapest's annual Mangalica Festival takes place at the beginning of the month. It celebrates an indigenous breed of pig that Hungarians make into tasty dishes.
The Budapest Fish Festival, also called Budapesti Halfesztivál, takes place in mid-February. Families and fish fans gather to eat tons of crispy fried sea bream.
Farsang, Hungary's carnival season, starts on Epiphany (January 6) and it ends on Ash Wednesday, which typically occurs in mid-February. The celebration includes many festivities, masquerades, and other festive events.
Hungary celebrates a holiday similar to Groundhog Day on February 2. However, rather than a groundhog seeing its shadow, in Hungary, the question is whether or not the bear sees its shadow.
Seeing the city's sights from the river is an excellent outing, but if you do so in February, be sure to choose a tour that offers a heated panorama boat.
February is an ideal time to take the waters. There are 15 thermal baths and spas in Budapest; the most famous are Gellert and Széchenyi Thermal Bath.
Budapest doesn't have true skiing nearby, but you can take a trip to Normafa, a nearby hill in Buda where you can ski the bunny hill or sled down.
Budapest is unique in that it affords its visitors the opportunity to visit two cities in one: Thanks to the Danube River that the city straddles, it's home to both Buda, situated on the hills, and Pest, located on the plains. There's a unique concentration of art nouveau architecture here, alongside stunning thermal bath and spas, remarkable views, and more.
Budapest is blessed with very pleasant weather in April, as temperatures warm and tourists increase. It's easy to walk around the city this month, so if you're hoping to see the city's many heritage sights and landmarks by foot, there are few better times than during spring. One of the best ways: Relax at one of Budapest's many cafés, coffee, cocktail, or glass of wine in hand. While that can be difficult in March or winter, April is divine.
Luckily for travelers, temperatures in Budapest will increase throughout the month, finally reaching highs closer to 66 degrees Fahrenheit (19 degrees Celsius) by April 30.
The days also increase in length throughout April. After a long dark winter, you can expect an average of 13 hours of daylight in Budapest in April, as well as increasing sunshine. April is the sixth sunniest month of the year.
As for rainfall, Budapest receives 1.5 inches of rain spread across 13 days. Most rain is light-to-moderate, with occasional thunderstorms. It's unlikely that rain will mar your trip, but it's good to pack an umbrella just in case.
Bring comfortable walking shoes and clothing that is appropriate for both cool nights and warmer days. In preparation for the occasional rainy day, a light trench coat or rain poncho is a must-pack, as is an umbrella. In addition, you'll want to pack:
You want to be able to layer clothes as necessary, depending on the temperature. It's still cool during the day, so bring closed shoes for walking and a nicer pair of flats or low heels for evening outings.
Given the massive improvement in Budapest's weather in April, visitors will delight in the return of street fairs and other outdoor festivities.
  Weather Report  
  What to Pack  
  April Events in Budapest  
  April Travel Tips  
Average high: 59 degrees Fahrenheit (15 degrees Celsius)
Average low: 43 degrees Fahrenheit (6 degrees Celsius)
Jeans
Long-sleeved tops or blouses
Lightweight sweaters or sweatshirts
A light jacket or blazer
Comfortable walking shoes that are ideally waterproof
The Budapest Spring Wine and Jazz Festival: This event marries delicious food, fine wine, and great jazz music into one event.
Easter: If the holiday occurs during the month of April, look out for Hungarian Easter traditions, which will take the form of souvenirs, edible treats, and decorations. The Vajdahunyad Castle Easter Fair, in particular, hosts a giant Easter egg exhibition. Vorosmarty Square, well-known for its Christmas market, also hosts an equally-popular Easter fair.
Budapest's Spring Festival: The end of March and start of April rings in one of the year's most popular events. This two-week festival includes classical and folk music events, theatrical, and dance performances, as well as contemporary art exhibitions. There's usually a different theme each year.
Szechenyi Spa and Baths: Budapest's famous spots host a wild party every Saturday night in April. The dates can vary from year-to-year.
Oldtimer Show: Budapest typically hosts this event each year in April. This unique, two-day event takes place in mid-month and celebrates antique automobiles and motorcycles.
Budapest Art Week: Started in 2016 as a way for the city's art lovers to discover new modern and contemporary artists, the week-long event includes more than 60 artists and exhibitions.
Budapest's April weather is perfect for walking, so explore some of the city on foot. You'll get a greater appreciation for the beauty and character of the Hungarian capital city.
Don't miss Budapest's incredible Opera House during your visit. Considered one of the best Neo-Renaissance structures in Europe, it's not a sight to be missed. Open in 1884, it's still possible to tour the opera house during the day or enjoy a concert by night.
If the weather is warm enough, take a cruise along the Danube River to take in some of Budapest's most popular sights.
