Cannes - Home of the Cannes Film Festival on the Beautiful French Riviera
Cannes, France is a scenic cruise ship port of call on the French Riviera. Cannes is the home of beautiful beaches and beautiful people. The annual Cannes International Film Festival, held in May of each year, is Cannes' most famous attraction. For almost two weeks, thousands of photographers, paparazzi, the press, and movie fans descend on Cannes to see the new films previewed and to catch a glimpse of the famous actors, directors, and film moguls.
The rest of the year Cannes is home to tourists seeking sun and fun on the French Riviera. In addition to beach fun, cruise ship passengers also love strolling down the Boulevard de la Croissette in Cannes, sitting in a sunny cafe, or exploring some of the nearby villages or cities on the Riviera such as St. Paul de Vence, Eze, or Monte Carlo.
The French Riviera sparkles in the early morning sun. This photo was taken as we sailed into Cannes on the Crystal Symphony on our food and wine theme cruise.
The sidewalks outside the Cannes Film Festival Congress Hall are decorated with the handprints of famous people like Richard Gere. It is fun to walk around and see the various signatures and prints.
No, you don't put dogs in this dumpster. The French love their dogs, but in Cannes they try to get dog owners to keep the mess cleaned up!
The Carlton Hotel is Cannes' most famous hotel. The Carlton was the setting for the Grace Kelly and Cary Grant movie, "To Catch a Thief".
Can't you just see the stars entering the film festival at the Palais des Festivals.
What a perfect way to spend a summer day -- zipping along the French Riviera near Cannes on a sailboat.
The harbor in Cannes is filled with cruise ships, yachts, and sail boats.
The Place de la Castre is near the Musee de la Castre. It is an uphill climb from the beachfront to the tower, but the view is worth the climb.
Just one block from Boulevard de la Croissette, the most famous street in Cannes, is this main shopping area.
The Carlton Hotel is on the Boulevard de la Croissette in Cannes. It is just a few blocks from the Palais des Festivals and the cruise ship tender dock.
The Carlton Hotel has a distinctive look--white with two large domes. Local legend says that the domes were inspired by the breasts of La Belle Otero, a famous courtesan in the early 20th century.
The Seven Seas Voyager in the sparkling harbor of Cannes. I took this photo while on a pre-inaugural cruise on the Seven Seas Voyager in March 2003.
