Copenhagen Location:
Copenhagen is located in the eastern portion of Denmark on the island of Zealand. It is the largest city in Denmark with 1.7 million people populating the greater Copenhagen area.
Language:
Danish is a related to both Swedish and Norwegian, but many people in Copenhagen speak English as well.
Getting to Copenhagen from the Airport:
There are two types of airport shuttle services for Copenhagen available for online reservation - you can either reserve a one-way or a round trip shuttle. See: Copenhagen Airport Shuttles to/from Copenhagen.
Discount and Budget Copenhagen:
A Copenhagen Card is a tourist discount card that can save you money on tours and attractions in Copenhagen.
Denmark is a relatively expensive country, but there are a variety of free and inexpensive things to do in Copenhagen. See our Budget Copenhagen Guide for some money-saving tips.
Dining with Danes:
Wonderful Copenhagen has compiled a list of Copenhagen's Best Restaurants by category.
Want to have a more personal experience with Danish food and hospitality? Find out about Danish life by having dinner with a Danish family through the Dine with the Danes program.
Where to Stay:
The Hotel Windsor is a budget (for Copenhagen) two star hotel in the heart of the city with very high ratings.
If you have a family, or just prefer staying in an apartment in the city like we do, HomeAway offers some interesting apartment options: Copenhagen Vacation Rentals.
Ferries:
Direct ferries connect Copenhagen with Sweden, Norway and Poland. For more on ferry companies, see Directferries Copenhagen.
Kayaking
Yes, you can glide along the waterways in a sea kayak in Copenhagen. A popular provider of such activities is Kayak Republic. They don't just lead you around the bay:
Copenhagen Coach Tours - Sightseeing:
As Copenhagen is quite spread out, a Copenhagen City Top-on Hop-off tour would save you legs if you wanted to see the sights in a short time. Otherwise, Viator offers many tours of the city and some outside: Viator Tours of Copenhagen (Book Direct)
At the same time you might be interested in the highly-rated Copenhagen Card, also offered by Viator.
Tivoli Gardens - A garden park dating from 1843, located in the center of Copenhagen and featuring over 40 restaurants, Jazz venues and classical music events and festivals, as well as amusement rides, games and arcades, and midnight fireworks on Wednesday, Friday and Saturday.
Carlsberg Brewery - Take a self-guided tour with beer tasting afterwords.
Nyhavn district - A seafarer's canal-side haunt best experienced on a summer's night. Formerly hosting seedy bars, tattoo parlors, and brothels, now a tourist favorite for people-watching in outdoor cafes.
Stroget - The pedestrian strolling area of Copenhagen features shops, restaurants, bars and cafes.
Christiansborg Palace (Christiansborg Slot), the seat of the Danish Parliament. Guided tours through the royal reception rooms and Parliament areas are offered.
Christiania - a "social experiment" with self-government and a democracy based on dialogue replacing majority voting. Christiania was started in an abandoned army barracks in Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1971. The current government is not particularly sympathetic with the aims and achievements of Christiania, since soft drugs have been part of the experience.
Top Copenhagen Museums
The weather in Copenhagen is seldom extreme. Summer is very pleasant, with highs in the 70's. For climate charts for travel planning, see: Copenhagen Travel Weather.
Frederiksborg Castle and Museum (pictures) - Renaissance castle located in Hillerød, 45 min. by train from Copenhagen.
Kronborg (Hamlet's Castle) in Helsingør, accessible by train from Copenhagen.
  Copenhagen Attractions  
  Copenhagen Weather and Climate  
  Around Copenhagen  
Frihedsmuseet - The Museum of Danish Resistance (unfortunately the museum has burned and the building had to be demolished, but you can see the archives if you're a scholar.)
Glyptotek - Collection of Egyptian, Greek, Etruscan and Roman collections. Also Danish and French fine arts from the 19th and 20th century.
National Museet (The National Museum) Denmark's cultural history.
Royal Copenhagen Factory and Museum. Selection of priceless porcelain.
Museum Erotica - Illustrates erotic history from ancient times to our time.
Tøjhusmuseet (The Royal Arsenal Museum)
Copenhagen Amber Museum - Exhibition of amber jewelry in one of Copenhagen's best preserved houses from 1606.
Louisiana Museum of Modern Art, 40 minutes north of Copenhagen.
With so many free things in Copenhagen, you don't have to fall into the tourist trap and overpay. No, in Copenhagen, there are numerous free attractions and other things visitors can get for free...here are the best.
The Little Mermaid sits close to the shore of the cruise harbor "Langelinie" on her granite resting place, in the old harbor of Nyhavn. It is a short walk from the main cruise pier, nearby many of Copenhagen’s other major attractions.
The changing of the guard in Copenhagen takes place every day at Amalienborg Palace, no matter what the weather in Denmark might be like. While guards change positions every two hours, the main event for visitors is the changing of the entire guard at noon.
The King’s Garden (Kongens Have) at Rosenborg Castle in Copenhagen is Denmark's most popular royal castle. Look for the Hercules Pavillon and the statue of Hans Christian Andersen. In the summer months, there are puppet shows for children and the lawns are crowded with sunbathers.
When it comes to events, Copenhagen's best free events are:
Here's a free city center map of Copenhagen for you, for print or download.
In Copenhagen, the bicycle is one of the most popular methods of transportation, and CityBike is Copenhagen's free service that lets you use bicycles at no cost (except for a single coin deposit that you get back upon drop-off). You should definitely give this great service a try!
Use Expedia's flight search engine here to compare flight prices to Copenhagen or any other destination, any time.
Let's see how quick and painless it can be to arrange your visit. To make planning a little easier, just follow the link to the travel guide and use the numerous practical travel tips for Copenhagen listed there. Learn about Copenhagen's local weather, budget hotels, sights, and much more...
Copenhagen's architecture is something that you can enjoy in the entire city, absolutely free and at your leisure. If you'd like to see Danish architecture that is usually closed to Copenhagen visitors, visit Copenhagen for the Copenhagen Architecture & Design Days each May.
The Stroget is Copenhagen's famous pedestrian shopping area and is one of the major free attractions in Copenhagen. If you're not a shopper, you'll have no issues visiting the Stroget without spending a single Kroner. If you do like to shop, though, start at the Rådhuspladsen end of the Stroget - things are cheaper there!
 Free: Copenhagen's Little Mermaid 
 Free: Changing of the Guard in Copenhagen 
 Free Admission to the Royal Gardens 
 Free Events in Copenhagen 
 A Free Copenhagen Street Map 
 Copenhagen's CityBikes = Free Transportation 
  Free Flight Price Comparison to Copenhagen  
 Your Free Copenhagen Travel Guide 
  See Interesting Architecture for Free  
 A Free Stroll Along Stroget 
The Copenhagen Pride Festival
Midsummer's Eve Celebrations
While the city of Copenhagen has plenty of tours of its own and enough entertainment, restaurants, and bars to keep you busy day and night for weeks, there are also a number of great destinations nearby that are perfect for day trips. Explore Copenhagen's (and Denmark's) interesting history with castle and museum visits, relax in the sun away from the big city at an island or beach destination, or tour the sights at some neighboring cities. No matter what you choose to do, you're sure to find a nearby adventure.
Take a royal-themed day trip to North Zealand including a tour of Frederiksborg Castle, which is also home to Denmark's Museum of National History. You can learn about the flamboyant King Christian IV who once lived here, walk through rooms like the Coronation Chapel, and then stroll through the castle’s French Baroque gardens with a guide. Be sure to stop and take some photos of Fredensborg Castle, the annual summer residence of the Danish royal family. If you want to learn more about what you're seeing, the museum offers guided tours for visitors. 
Getting There: You can reach the castle by car (a 40-minute drive) by taking highway 16 toward Hillerød. Or by public transportation, take the S-train line E to Hillerød, and walk 15 to 20 minutes from the station to the castle, either through town or along the lake. 
Travel Tip: If you'd like to take a guided day trip to see all this, you can book a reservation online. It departs from City Hall Square in Copenhagen at 10:30 a.m. from May to September and takes about 6.5 hours. The tour is informative and interesting. 
One of the most beloved day trips from Copenhagen goes to the city of Aarhus, a historic city on the east coast of​ Jutland (Denmark's western peninsula). It offers a great selection of nightlife entertainment and also annual events, such as The Viking Festival in July, in which people gather to recreate the early days of the city with markets, sword-fighting, and more. The city is also home to the contemporary art museum, ARoS Aarhus Kunstmuseum, botanical gardens, and a palace. 
Getting There: The quickest option is to fly to Aarhus from Copenhagen, which takes about 45 minutes. Or if you prefer to take a train, the journey is about three hours and trains leave the city every 30 to 45 minutes. Driving takes about three hours. Take the E20 west until you hit the E45, and go north on the E45 to Aarhus. 
Travel Tip: If you're not in town during the festival, you should visit the Viking Museum for a glimpse into this significant aspect of the city's past. 
Also known as Denmark's Garden Island, the wildly romantic island of Fyn (Funen) is the home to many fairy tales, and it's also the birthplace of writer Hans Christian Andersen. Fyn is also home to a number of beautiful castles (known as slots in ​Danish), like Nyborg Slot, Egeskov Slot, Broholm Gods, Holckenhavn Slot, and Harridslevgaard Slot.
You can spend all day wandering through the rolling hills checking out acres of orchards and a variety of old farmhouses or head over to the open-air museum Den Fynske Landsby (Fyn Village) and Odense Zoo.
Getting There: Accessing the island is relatively easy. If you drive, it's about an hour and a half, and there is a toll bridge. There's also a direct train between Copenhagen and Funen that is typically a little quicker than driving. 
Travel Tip: The island of Fyn has a strong culinary scene—it hosts several food events and festivals, and it's home to several great restaurants. Don't skip the chance to indulge while you're here! 
One of the best day trips from Copenhagen has to be a visit to the islands of Lolland and Falster. These islands offer things to do no matter which town you are visiting, but Maribo has several attractions to see. 
If you're in Maribo, consider visiting the Museumsbanen (Museum Train), Nakskov's Green World Zoo, and the submarine U-359, but you can also visit a 12th-century royal residence, Ålholm Castle, in the town of Nysted, and don't forget Knuthenborg Manor with its Safari Park (open April-October).
Getting There: Lolland is connected to Denmark's Zealand by a bridge. A day trip from Copenhagen to Lolland is an 80-mile drive along the E47 road south.
Travel Tip: This destination is home to beautiful nature and plenty of adventure activities. While here, try a few, such as biking, kayaking, fishing, golfing, and more.   
 
olli0815/Getty Images 
Local whiskey, pristine beaches, and the remains of Tycho Brahe's 16th-century observatory are the top attractions on the island, but the 360 inhabitants of the island also offer a number of local cuisines, crafts, and shops to browse.
If you're looking to escape all the noise of the cities to a peaceful, secluded location, this tiny island is like a little piece of heaven on earth.
Getting There: Located between Denmark and Sweden, the ferry from Copenhagen takes about 90 minutes to get to Hven Island. If you prefer to drive, it takes about two hours along the E20. 
Travel Tip: If you're a whiskey drinker, head to the Spirit of Hven Distillery for a tasting.
If you're in the mood for sandy beaches and a day of relaxation, plan your day trip from Copenhagen to the sunny island of Bornholm. This is the place to lean back, stroll through the sand, or maybe rent a bicycle for an afternoon.
A popular summer travel destination, Bornholm's nickname is the Pearl of the Baltic. 
Getting There: The biggest town on the island is Rønne, which is also the point of arrival for travelers to Bornholm, and there are direct 35-minute flights from Copenhagen that fly into Rønne-Bornholm Airport. That's by far the quickest and easiest way to get there. If you go by car, bus, or train, the trip can take up to three or four hours as you'll have to go into Sweden to take a bridge.
Travel Tip: Check out Baltic Sea Glass, a glass studio and shop on the island that has beautiful and unique works of glass art. 
 
Raimund Linke/Getty Images 
For an even more intimate day trip, perhaps for a honeymoon or a romantic weekend getaway, the small village of Dragør offers a bit of Danish history with all the amenities of the modern day.
Located just southeast of Copenhagen, this preserved village was founded in the 12th century as a fishing port for Denmark. For a closer look at early life in Dragør, spend the day at the Amager Museum, an open-air recreation of life in the old days, or the Dragør Museum in the harbor.
Getting There: Dragør is about a 15- to 20-minute drive southeast of Copenhagen. You can also take a train or bus, both taking about 30 minutes.
Travel Tip: The Amager Museum is closed on Mondays, so plan accordingly. 
 
Josef F. Stuefer/Getty Images 
Located near city of Borre on the island of Møn, the Møns Klint is a three-mile stretch of chalk cliffs considered to be one of Denmark's natural wonders.
You can spend the night at a campsite just above the cliffs or down by the beach, or if you're interested in geology and science, visit the GeoCenter Møns Klint, Northern Europe's most modern science center. 
Getting There: The island of Møn is about an hour drive to the south along the E20 to the E47. That's typically the quickest and cheapest way, but there's also a direct train between the two places that takes about 1.5 to two hours. 
Travel Tip: Besides just taking in the beauty of the cliffs, there are also a few hiking trails around them you can take. And it's also possible to find fossils in the area, so be on the lookout! 
Not far from Helsingør in Humlebæk, the Lousiana Museum of Modern Art houses one of the region's largest collections of Danish art. When opened in 1952, the museum was originally intended for exclusively Danish art pieces but expanded soon after to include famous works from all around the world.
This museum served an important role in developing Denmark's cultural history and has been credited with teaching the Danish citizenry to look at and appreciate art. 
Getting There: Driving or taking the direct train are your best bets, as Humlebæk is only a 30-minute journey with either option. 
Travel Tip: The city of Humlebæk is also a great destination for some traditional Danish restaurants, but you'll have to travel up to Helsingør if you hope to stay the night nearby.
Located just southeast of Copenhagen in Kastrup, Denmark—near the Danish end of the Øresund Bridge and the Københavns Lufthavn airport—Den Blå Planet is easily accessible by train from the city.
Den Blå Planet is Northeastern Europe's largest aquarium and allows guests to get up close with sharks, sea otters, and all manner of ocean life. 
Getting There: Kastrup is only a 20-minute drive south from Copenhagen, and there's also a direct train that takes only about 15 minutes, so choose whichever option best fits your plans for your trip. 
Travel Tip: While there, you can also take a behind-the-scenes tour of the aquarium or even get a chance to dive with sharks! 
One of the most popular ways to really experience the history, culture, and architecture of Denmark's capital region is to take the Grand Day Trip, a small group guided tour of three major castles including the UNESCO heritage site Kronberg Castle.
On the tour, you'll get to visit Roskilde Cathedral, the burial place to more Kings and Queens than anywhere on earth, before heading to Frederiksborg Castle, the biggest Scandinavian Renaissance-era castle still standing. 
Getting There: The tour leaves from the area across from City Hall in Copenhagen. 
Travel Tip: Bring your camera to photograph the beautiful nature of the Danish Riviera.
 
klug-photo/Getty Images 
You could spend an entire day at the Maritime Museum of Denmark, which tells the story of Denmark's seafaring history through permanent and rotating exhibitions like "In the Shadow of War" and "Ships of all Times."
Almost invisible from the street, this underground museum is worth the trip to see the architecture alone, but you can also learn more about how Denmark became known as one of the world's leading maritime nations.
Getting There: You can get to Helsingør by a 30- to 40-minute drive, or you can also take a train from Copenhagen Central Station that takes about an hour. 
Travel Tip: When you're done exploring the museum, head to Kronborg, a 16th century castle that was also the setting of Shakespeare's "Hamlet."
A little off the beaten path but worth the trip if you're a fan of elegant architecture and Denmark's rich cultural heritage. The town of Kalunborg is home to the Church of Our Lady, a five-towered church built in the late 1100s.
This historic church has experienced many renovations, updates, and additions over the centuries, but spending the day in Medieval Old Town Kalundborg combined with a tour of this stunning chapel make for a great day trip back in time.
Getting There: The cheapest and quickest way to get there is to drive, which will take you about an hour and a half along routes 21 or 23. The train ride there is about two hours and includes some transfers.
Travel Tip: If you're in the area during summer, you can also see the gorgeous gardens at Birkegårdens Haver from May to mid-September.
If you'd rather take a break from Copenhagen entirely or just have a few extra days to add to your itinerary, you should consider taking a  day trip to Sweden.
Visiting the Swedish cities of Helsingborg, Lund, and Malmö is a great way to catch a glimpse of the nearby but entirely different Swedish culture.
Getting There: You have several options to get to these destinations depending on what you plan to do and how flexible you want to be. All options will take you over the Oresund Bridge, and it takes about 40 minutes to an hour to get from Copenhagen to Malmö. 
Travel Tip: There are several guided tours that you can take from Copenhagen to one of these cities in just one day, so you don't have to worry about transportation. Look here for tour options.
 North Zealand: Frederiksborg Castle 
 The City of Aarhus: Experience History and Culture 
 The Island of Fyn: A Romantic Getaway 
 The Islands of Lolland and Falster: A Train Museum and Safari Park 
 Hven Island: Beaches and Great Local Cuisine 
 Bornholm: Relax by the Beach 
 Dragør: A Historic Village 
 Møn: Gorgeous Cliffs 
 Humlebæk: A Museum of Danish Art 
 Kastrup: Northeastern Europe's Largest Aquarium 
 The Capital Region: A Tour of the Most Noteworthy Sites 
 Helsingør: The Maritime Museum of Denmark 
 Kalundborg: A Historic Church 
 Sweden: Helsingborg, Lund, and Malmö 
There are several types of transportation you can use to get from Copenhagen, Denmark, to Malmö, Sweden, and back; the distance between the cities isn't far. Your transportation options can usually be booked in advance, but each option has pros and cons.
Copenhagen is the largest city in Scandinavia and a is a popular tourist destination and port of call for passenger ships. Malmö is Sweden’s third-largest city with a castle and enchanting old town center. In contrast, Malmö has a redeveloped waterfront with promenades and has Scandinavia's tallest building. It's a progressive, vibrant town.
The Oresund Bridge links Denmark and Sweden and was completed in 2000. The $4 billion bridge/tunnel project consists of a 5-mile bridge, 2.5-mile tunnel, and a man-made island. 
Here's a closer look at four ways to get between Copenhagen and Malmö.
Taking the train from Copenhagen to Malmö is a popular option and only takes 35 minutes across the famous Oresund Bridge. The train departs either city's central train station every 20 minutes and stops intermittently at locations such as at Copenhagen Kastrup Airport. The advantage here is a flexible schedule and low price since you won't have to pay a bridge toll. You can purchase your ticket locally or order flexible train passes for Denmark and Sweden at RailEurope.com before you go so you don't have to worry about getting tickets.
If you'd like to rent a car to get from Copenhagen to Malmö, it's a 45-minute drive (45 kilometers or 28 miles). Simply take the E20 across the Oresund Bridge (54 euro toll required). It's a beautiful and memorable drive through the tunnel and across the bridge, but you'll pay for gas and the bridge toll.
If you are going to be traveling across this bridge more than a couple of times, you can purchase a Bropas (bridge pass), which will give you half-off pricing. 
You can also save by using the "SmutTur" (getaway) discount which is available all weekdays from 5 p.m. to 12 a.m., as well as all day on weekends and holidays when you return within six hours. The six hours begin when you pass the toll station on the Swedish side.
Here's probably the cheapest option: Take the Flybus 737 from Copenhagen to Malmo across the Oresund Bridge. It's a direct bus line commuting between the airports of the two cities and also coincides with Ryanair flight arrivals from the UK. From Copenhagen, the bus to Malmö departs on Ingerslevsgade. In Malmö, you'll find the bus to Copenhagen right outside Malmö airport. You can also take the Greyhound bus (Gråhund). Look for bus line 999.
You can also take a guided bus tour from Copenhagen to Malmö, such as the Swedish Day Trip from Copenhagen (unfortunately, it's not available year-round). This full-day tour contains bus and ferry transportation and guided group sightseeing of the Copenhagen-Malmö region.
Malmö is located in between Malmo Sturup Airport and Copenhagen Kastrup International Airport, so flying from Copenhagen to Malmö or back doesn't really make any sense. You can fly directly to either Copenhagen or Malmö from other cities in Europe and then start your exploration of these two interesting and vibrant cities joined by a bridge that is a marvel of engineering.
  1. Copenhagen to Malmö by Train  
  2. Copenhagen to Malmö by Car  
  3. Copenhagen to Malmö by Bus  
  4. Copenhagen to Malmö by Air  

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Best Overall: 71 Nyhavn Hotel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Breakfast is served every morning, and you can help yourself to free afternoon tea and coffee in the cozy central lobby."
Best Budget Hotel: Wakeup Copenhagen, Borgergade — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"The hotel also offers triple rooms and connecting rooms, making it a good choice for families in search of a cheap city center stay."
Best Boutique: Nimb Hotel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"The service is exemplary, with butlers trained to accommodate even the most eccentric requests."
Best for Families: Tivoli Hotel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"The hotel is designed for kids with an indoor pool, a playroom, a garden and an outdoor playground."
Best for Romance: Bertrams Guldsmeden — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"The Balinese design is light and airy, with thoughtful touches ranging from parquet floors to claw-foot tubs."
Best Luxury: Hotel D’Angleterre — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"There are 92 rooms and suites, all of which spoil with a DUX king bed, a marble bathroom and a Bang & Olufsen TV."
Best for Nightlife: Absalon Hotel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Themed around rich tones of green, blue or plum, the rooms are designed for next-day relaxation with a 40” LED TV and free Wi-Fi."
Best Business: Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Unwind in the fitness room or in one of several restaurants - including stylish atrium venue Bark."
Best Views: Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"All rooms include free Wi-Fi, comfortable pillow-topped bedding and a luxurious marble bathroom."
Courtesy of 71 Nyhavn Hotel
Those looking for a quintessential Copenhagen experience should book a stay at 71 Nyhavn Hotel. Located on iconic Nyhavn canal, it is surrounded by multi-hued buildings and atmospheric restaurants. The hotel is comprised of two early 19th-century warehouses, one red and one yellow. Inside, admire a fine collection of Danish artworks, including masterpieces by Cobra movement luminaries Asger Jorn and Karel Appel. The reception remains open around the clock, and the service is exceptional.
There are 130 rooms and suites, the best of which have canal views. All rooms include a luxury Carpe Diem bed, a pillow menu, a flat-screen TV and free Wi-Fi. Breakfast is served every morning, and you can help yourself to free afternoon tea and coffee in the cozy central lobby. The hotel’s culinary highlight, however, is SEA by Kiin Kiin, an off-shoot of the city’s Michelin-starred Kiin Kiin restaurant. Order Southeast Asian small plates in a romantic setting designed to evoke 1930s Hong Kong.
Courtesy of Wakeup Copenhagen 
In exceptionally expensive Copenhagen, finding quality budget accommodation can be difficult. Wakeup Copenhagen stands out not only for its affordable room rates, but also for its excellent location within easy walking distance of 17th-century Rosenborg Castle. Minimalist in design, the hotel has 498 contemporary rooms, all with a flat-screen TV, a Double bed, air-conditioning and free Wi-Fi. Choose a Standard Room on the lowest floors for the best rates.
The hotel also offers triple rooms and connecting rooms, making it a good choice for families in search of a cheap city center stay. In the morning, you can fill up at the continental breakfast buffet for a small fee. Drinks and snacks are available for purchase in the lobby, but there are also plenty of restaurants nearby. Other useful facilities include a 24-hour reception, a business center for corporate travelers and rental bicycles (allowing you to save money on public transport). 
Courtesy of Nimb Hotel  
Situated inside Tivoli Gardens, Nimb Hotel invites you into the fantasy world of Copenhagen’s 19th-century amusement park. The hotel is a Moorish palace, clad in marble stucco, topped with domed turrets and illuminated at night by countless twinkling lights. Inside, the decor is a combination of Old World elegance and contemporary Danish design. Choose from just 17 rooms, 12 of which are suites. All have a Bang & Olufsen TV and sound system (and most have open fireplaces and Tivoli Garden views).
The service is exemplary, with butlers trained to accommodate even the most eccentric requests. You’re spoiled for choice with a range of different restaurants - including Nimb Brasserie, known for its mouthwatering French cuisine. After a busy day, return to Nimb Bar for afternoon tea by the six-foot fireplace or for champagne cocktails beneath the heritage ballroom’s crystal chandeliers. Other perks include a 24-hour gym and in-room massages. 
 Courtesy of Tivoli Hotel
Located a 15-minute walk from Tivoli Gardens, Tivoli Hotel is the perfect choice for those visiting Copenhagen’s top family attraction. As well as inclusive park packages, the hotel is designed for kids with an indoor pool, a playroom, a garden and an outdoor playground. If you’re traveling during school holidays, you can also expect a slew of special children’s activities. Family Rooms sleep three or four with a pull-out mattress.
Connecting rooms and Theme Rooms that recreate the magic of Tivoli Gardens are also available. All options include free Wi-Fi and a TV with dedicated kids’ channels. Of the three on-site restaurants, the best for families is Tivoli Brasserie. Expect Danish and international dishes, children’s menus and direct access to the outdoor playground. Dogs are also welcome, while other pluses include a fitness center and indoor parking. 
Courtesy of Bertrams Guldsmeden 
Charming Bertrams Guldsmeden is designed for style-conscious couples who prioritize intimacy over endless amenities. This adults-only hotel is located in fashionable Vesterbro, home to independent cafés, restaurants and galleries. There are just 47 rooms, all of them equipped for romance with a four-poster bed. The Balinese design is light and airy, with thoughtful touches ranging from parquet floors to claw-foot tubs.
Downstairs, there’s an open-plan lobby and a cozy restaurant where you can reconnect over breakfast. Served until 11:30 a.m. on weekends, the organic buffet allows you plenty of time for lazy mornings in bed. The highlight, however, is the landscaped garden. With plenty of quiet corners to sit and talk, it’s a romantic oasis - even in winter, when blankets are provided to keep you warm. 
Courtesy of Hotel D’Angleterre 
Five-star Hotel D’Angleterre is a Copenhagen icon located near the Royal Danish Theatre. Established in 1755, the hotel has hosted Denmark’s elite for over 260 years. After a full renovation in 2013, it represents the perfect blend of classic grace and contemporary technology. There are 92 rooms and suites, all of which spoil with a DUX king bed, a marble bathroom and a Bang & Olufsen TV.
For the height of luxury, choose the Royal Suite with its chandeliers and gilded paneling. It includes a living room and a private dining room, as well as a balcony with beautiful theater views. The spa boasts an indoor pool and fitness studio, while Marchal restaurant is well-deserving of its Michelin star. In the evening, sample one of 160 different champagnes at Balthazar bar. 
 Courtesy of Absalon Hotel
Absalon Hotel is the ideal base for partygoers wishing to explore the nearby Meatpacking District, a Vesterbro hotspot known as the epicenter of Copenhagen’s nightlife. Ultra-modern interiors reflect the area’s on-trend atmosphere, while the vibrant lobby lounge is a great place to meet friends. Enjoy a cocktail or two at the bar, or wander into the courtyard for al fresco sundowners before a night out on the town. Themed around rich tones of green, blue or plum, the rooms are designed for next-day relaxation with a 40” LED TV and free Wi-Fi. In the bathrooms, you’ll find Karmameju toiletries and Philippe Starck design elements. After a late night, revive yourself with the hotel’s generous breakfast buffet. 
Courtesy of Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers  
Located a three-minute walk from Ørestad station, Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers allows you to reach the city center or the airport in just 10 minutes. There are 21 meeting rooms on-site, with space for up to 800 guests. Wi-Fi is free and the 24-hour business center takes care of your printing and copying needs. After your meetings, unwind in the fitness room or in one of several restaurants - including stylish atrium venue Bark. All rooms are equipped with a flat-screen TV and a spacious work desk, while the Sleep Advantage program offers perks such as premium bedding and guaranteed wake-up calls. 
Courtesy of Copenhagen Marriott Hotel 
Thanks to its central waterfront location, Copenhagen Marriott Hotel is able to offer some of the best views in the city. In the rooms and suites, floor-to-ceiling windows take full advantage of the hotel’s enviable setting. Decide whether you want to look out over the city or the harbor canal, then choose an Executive Level room for a top-floor perspective. All rooms include free Wi-Fi, comfortable pillow-topped bedding and a luxurious marble bathroom. Beautiful canal views can also be appreciated from on-site Midtown Grill, while the PIER 5 terrace is perfect for cocktails overlooking the water.  
  Best Overall: 71 Nyhavn Hotel  
  Best Budget Hotel: Wakeup Copenhagen, Borgergade  
  Best Boutique: Nimb Hotel  
  Best for Families: Tivoli Hotel  
  Best for Romance: Bertrams Guldsmeden  
  Best Luxury: Hotel D’Angleterre  
  Best for Nightlife: Absalon Hotel  
  Best Business: Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers  
  Best Views: Copenhagen Marriott Hotel  
Copenhagen, Denmark is the largest city in Scandinavia, with lots to see and do for everyone. Copenhagen is also a very popular port of call or embarkation point for cruise ships sailing to the Baltic capitals.
Copenhagen is a great city to walk in—it has flat terrain with no skyscrapers and few automobiles. So whether you have just a day in the city or are there for a vacation, you'll enjoy the traditional sights, like the Little Mermaid Statue, along with contemporary attractions like walking and shopping the Stroget pedestrian-only street.
Massimo Borchi / Atlantide Phototravel / Getty Images
 Tivoli Gardens is Copenhagen's most popular tourist destination. Millions of people fill the gardens, dine in the 40 restaurants, enjoy the entertainment, ride the amusement rides, play the games, or just sit and eat ice cream and people-watch from mid-April to late September each year.
Tivoli was opened in 1843, and it was once on the western edge of the city. Today it is in the center of Copenhagen and, for those on a cruise, it is only a short taxi ride from the Langelinie cruise ship pier.
The entertainment varies each day, so be sure to pick up a map and schedule when you pay the entry fee at the gate. Tivoli is at its best at night, when over 100,000 colored lanterns light up the gardens.
Maremagnum / Getty Images
The iconic Little Mermaid statue is a must-see for visitors to Copenhagen and is only a 10-minute walk from the cruise ship pier. At less than five feet tall, the little statue is much smaller than most people expect, and she sits on a rock near the shore, not in the middle of the harbor.
Hans Christian Andersen wrote "The Little Mermaid" fairy tale in 1837, and in 1909 the founder of Carlsberg Breweries, who was fascinated by the story, had the statue built.
The Little Mermaid statue has sat on her boulder since August 23, 1913, but has had a very turbulent life, with at least eight vandalism attacks. She has been dowsed in paint numerous times, had her right arm amputated, been decapitated three times, and even pushed from her rock in 2003. Fortunately, the sculptor made a mold, so the Little Mermaid's "parts" have been re-created by recasting the bronze using the original mold.
Ingenui / Getty Images
The City Hall is near Tivoli Gardens and the Stroget pedestrian mall and is a good place to start a tour of Copenhagen. The lobby has a good selection of tourist information and maps. The City Hall is free except for the 300-step climb to the top of the tower, which will cost 40 DKK (or free with the Copenhagen Card). The large atrium of the City Hall was inspired by the City Hall in Siena, Italy.
On the exterior front of the City Hall are large polar bears that symbolize Greenland, which is still a protectorate of Denmark.
Marco Zanferrari / Flickr / CC BY-SA 2.0
Before starting a stroll down the pedestrian mall of Stroget, look at the top of the Philips (or Richshuset) building on the opposite side of City Hall square. The golden weather girls used to tell the weather before the mechanism broke. One girl on a bicycle would rotate to the front when it was sunny, and the second girl with an umbrella would rotate to the front when it was rainy. Below them is a long, neon thermometer, also from the 1930s, which still works today.
Yadid Levy / robertharding / Getty Images
One of Europe's longest pedestrian streets, The Stroget is home to shops ranging from budget-friendly chains to some of the world's priciest upscale brands. The Stroget is 1.1 kilometers long and runs from City Hall Square to Kongens Nytorv, the largest square of the city.
You can shop 'til you drop at stores like Prada, Gucci, Louis Vuitton, and Mulberry. Shops like H&M, Vero Moda, and Zara are found closer to City Hall Square. As you walk, enjoy the street entertainers.
The Stroget pedestrian mall is also a wonderful place to experience some of the sights of Copenhagen. The Stroget is actually a series of streets that weave through downtown Copenhagen from the City Hall to the Nyhavn harbor. You can walk the length of Stroget in 30 minutes, but it will take you a half-day if you take in many of the side streets.
Stanley With / Stanley Photography / Getty Images
This statue of children's author Hans Christian Andersen (1805-1875), known best for his fairy tales, is located in King's Garden. Visitors of all ages love to sit on his lap and have their photo taken. Note how shiny his knees are!
Linda Garrison
This Fountain of Charity in Gammel Torv (Old Square) is only one of the fascinating sites on the Stroget. Although the statue has been in Gammel Torv since the 1600s, the two figures were considered controversial during the Victorian era, and the statue was put high on this pedestal so that the pregnant nude woman and the young boy would not be so noticeable.
Near Gammel Torv is the marvelous neoclassical Lutheran church, the Cathedral of Our Lady. It looks much like a Greek Temple, with all the Apostles in Roman togas. The church has marvelous acoustics and free organ concerts each Saturday at noon.
Tim Graham / Getty Images
Nyhavn Harbor in Copenhagen, Denmark is a good place to eat outside and enjoy a summer day. The old sailors' quarters have been converted into colorful trendy cafes, bars, and jazz clubs.
Inside the bridge area, the harbor is actually a museum and historic ship harbor where only members of the Association of Wooden Ships are admitted or guests with vessels of special historical interest.
The Nyhavn canal is filled with sailboats and is also the best place to take a tour on one of the many Copenhagen harbor cruise and canal cruise boats.
PhotographerCW / Getty Images
Christiansborg Castle Square in Copenhagen, Denmark is the site of a complex of government buildings, including the Parliament, Supreme Court, and Prime Minister's office. The royal family has not lived at Christianborg for over 200 years but uses the palace for special occasions. You can't wander around the palace alone, but the 50-minute English language tour of the palace is well worth the cost.
To find the entrance to the Christiansborg Palace tours, enter the wooden door behind the equestrian statue, go past the entrance to the Christianborg ruins, then into a courtyard and up the stairs on the right. A tour provides great information on the Danish royal family and its connection to the royals of other European countries. The highlight of the tour is the collection of modern wall tapestries given to the Queen which were made by Gobelin of Paris and are some of the most spectacular you will ever see.
Ole Jensen / Getty Images
The Copenhagen Jazz Festival is held each July in Copenhagen. The balloon in the photo was used in one of the parades for the Jazz Festival. Jazz musicians from around the world perform practically non-stop at Tivoli Gardens and around the city both indoors and outdoors. Many of the performances, many of them family-friendly, are free.
Glow Images / Getty Images
The Amalienborg Palace is the home of the Danish Royal family. The Amalienborg Museum allows visitors to see the private interiors of the most recent past kings and queens and an exhibit on the monarchy today.
Amalienborg is famous for its Royal Guard (Den Kongelige Livgarde). The changing of the guards takes place daily. See the guards march from their barracks in 100 Gothersgade by Rosenborg Castle through the streets of Copenhagen and end up at Amalienborg, where the changing of the guard takes place at 12:00 noon.
Construction Photography / Avalon /  Getty Images
The Oresund Bridge links Denmark and Sweden. Constructed less than 20 years ago, the bridge is touted as providing this connection for the first time since the end of the Ice Age over 7000 years ago. The $4 billion bridge/tunnel project was completed in 2000 and consists of a 5-mile bridge, 2.5-mile tunnel, and a man-made island.
Malmo, Sweden, the third-largest city in Sweden, is just 35 minutes away from Copenhagen via the train across the Oresund Straits. The bridge toll for a car is about 45 euros.
 Play and Dine at Tivoli Gardens 
  Visit the Little Mermaid Statue  
  City Hall Square  
  See the Weather Girl  
  Stroll the Stroget  
  Sit on the Lap of the Hans Christian Andersen Statue  
  See the Fountain of Charity in Old Square  
  Explore Colorful Nyhavn Harbor  
  Tour Christiansborg Castle Square  
  Enjoy the Music at the Copenhagen Jazz Festival  
  Visit the Amalienborg Palace  
  Cross the Famous Oresund Bridge  
Copenhagen and Bergen are separated by a distance of about 1,000 kilometers (620 miles), which can be covered in several different ways by travelers. Each transportation option between Copenhagen and Bergen has its own pros and cons.
Taking one of the hour-and-a-half direct flights by SAS or Norwegian is definitely a good option if you want to get to Bergen or back to Copenhagen quickly. The prices for a one-way ticket aren't too expensive if you book a bit in advance. The ticket prices will add up if you need round trip tickets for the entire family, though, so other transportation options might be more suitable.
It'll be a long journey if you want to take the train. There is no direct rail connection between Copenhagen and Bergen. You have to travel via Oslo and you'll need about one and a half days (still not as long as the bus option, though). You can book tickets on RailEurope.com. Getting ​from Bergen to Oslo by train takes seven hours alone but it is a scenic journey and the best option for travelers who have time to spare. A Eurail Pass ticket for Scandinavia is another more flexible, cost-saving option. It is reasonably priced and can cover Denmark, Norway, and Sweden all at once.
Quite a few travelers just rent a car. There are two main routes taken by drivers between these cities, and the travel time of 12 to 13 hours is the same for each route. The more scenic drive takes you across the Øresund Bridge and through Malmö. Then, follow the E6/E20 north merge onto the E16 to Bergen.
The second option involves the short Helsingør/Helsingborg ferry (which departs frequently) and the same road heading north thereafter. To drive from Bergen to Copenhagen instead, simply reverse the directions.
If you're focusing on keeping your travel budget as low as possible, nothing beats the bus. Yes, it's slow. Yes, it can be uncomfortable. But it's also the cheapest transportation option and can be relaxing. Keep in mind you'll spend 18 hours on the bus to get from Copenhagen to Bergen and that doesn't include waiting for your connection.
Swebus Express bus line 820 connects Copenhagen (select bus station named "Köpenhamn") and Oslo. Between Oslo and Bergen, use Nor-Way Bussekspress, which offers daily morning departures in each direction.
Pricey, but pretty. This is a beautiful ship journey, assuming you want the Copenhagen-Bergen connection to be the focal point of your visit. Scantours and CruiseDirect even offer complete cruise tours that have both cities as ports of call and can be joined for the Copenhagen-Bergen trip. Pick this option if you have a decent travel budget and several days available.
On a cheaper note, you can also just book the Copenhagen-Oslo ferry and then travel from Oslo to Bergen with a different type of transportation.
  Copenhagen to Bergen by Air  
  Copenhagen to Bergen by Train  
  Copenhagen to Bergen by Car  
  Copenhagen to Bergen by Bus  
  Copenhagen to Bergen by Ship or Ferry  
When traveling in Denmark from Copenhagen to Aarhus (and from Aarhus to Copenhagen), travelers have a good selection of different transportation options. However, each option has its own pros and cons.
Find out here which fits best for your trip from Copenhagen to Aarhus. Here are the five transportation options to consider.
Flying between Copenhagen and Aarhus only takes about 45 minutes and there are several direct flights daily, offered by SAS and others. This is a good option mainly for travelers pressed for time. Otherwise, the disadvantages are the price tag and that there's not much to look at during the trip.  
Taking the train from Copenhagen to Stockholm usually costs a little less than plane tickets and is a good option if you want to stay flexible. It also takes longer (about three hours) to travel between Copenhagen and Aarhus, though. Trains leave either city every 30 to 45 minutes and the train ride is scenic and relaxing. You can get flexible train tickets and compare prices at RailEurope.com.
Driving between Copenhagen and Aarhus is suitable if you have about four hours of time for the 300 kilometers (185 miles) distance, a rental car and are ready for a scenic drive. There are two routes you can take: The easy option includes a toll road and the bridge across Storebælt (DKK 200-330). From Copenhagen, take the E20 west until you hit the E45. Go north on the E45 to Aarhus. Or avoid the toll route and take a ferry part of the way (DKK 300-700). This way, just go northwest on road 21 to Sjaellands-Odde and take the Mols Line ferry to Aarhus from there.​
To use a ferry between Copenhagen and Aarhus, take a look at the second driving option above.
This is a viable option that leaves travelers flexible, relaxed and with money to spare. The  Abildskou bus line 888 connects Copenhagen and Aarhus daily. It's comparatively inexpensive for an adult bus ticket, paid directly to the bus driver. The Copenhagen-Aarhus trip takes about three hours.
  1. From Copenhagen to Aarhus by Air  
  2. From Copenhagen to Aarhus by Train  
  3. From Copenhagen to Aarhus by Car  
  4. From Copenhagen to Aarhus by Ship  
  5. From Copenhagen to Aarhus by Bus  
Denmark's largest city and one of Europe's great hubs of culture, design, eco-consciousness, and progressive politics, Copenhagen has an extremely well-organized and visible GLBT community. The city hosts the impressively attended and extensive Copenhagen Gay Pride in mid-August - the dates this year are August 16 to August 20, 2016.
Planning to visit Copenhagen by train? Here's the inside scoop on buying a Eurail Pass.
Copenhagen Gay Pride comprises a number of events held throughout the city. For the four main days of the celebration, the city center's City Hall Square (at Radhuspladsen and Stroget is transformed into Pride Square and hosts concerts, art exhibitions, vendors, and more. It's open from Wednesday through Saturday from 11 am until 11 pm. 
The biggest day of Copenhagen Pride is Saturday, August 20. At 1 pm, the Copenhagen Gay Pride Parade departs Frederiksberg Rådhusplads (town hall). Then throughout the afternoon, the Copenhagen Pride Show takes place.
Other major Pride events in Scandinavia include Oslo Gay Pride and Helsinki Gay Pride, both of which take place in June, and Stockholm Gay Pride, which is held in late July.
Copenhagen Gay Resources
Note that Copenhagen's scores of gay-popular bars, restaurants, hotels, and shops in the area have more going on than usual during Pride week. Check online resources about the Copenhagen gay scene, such as the Patroc.com Gay Guide to Copenhagen. Also take a look at the excellent gay visitor site produced by the city's official tourism organization, Visit Copenhagen.
Are you traveling to Copenhagen, Denmark, and might be interested in a sightseeing tour? Take one of these interesting tours for travelers. The tour operators offer payment in USD, EUR, AUD and GBP. Keep in mind that if a tour is seasonal and does not operate at the time of your trip, you can always check out the list of all available Copenhagen tours here.
The Grand Tour of Copenhagen covers all the major sights of the Danish capital. Traveling in a comfortable bus on this tour, you visit Amalienborg Palace (the winter residence of the Danish Royal Family), the Little Mermaid in the harbor, and much more.
The tour departs daily year-round from City Hall Square (in front of the Palace Hotel). 
Listen to old tales of Shakespeare at Elsinore Castle, see Queen Margrethe's summer castle Fredensborg and bring your camera to photograph the beautiful nature of the Danish Riviera. This is one of the best guided tours in Denmark and a great value for the price. Departs daily in summer, 3 times weekly in winter.
You will see a lot of typical, idyllic Denmark on this tour, which includes a bus trip and a cruise along the historical harbor. One of the best short guided tours ever, this tour operates May through September (at least!). It concludes in the very heart of Copenhagen at Gammel Strand.
What a unique way to see Copenhagen. This guided tour "guides" visitors to each attraction in Copenhagen. You can hop on and off as many times as you want, on this fun-to-ride open-top double-decker bus! Each of the three routes offered takes about an hour. The Hop On Hop Off ticket is valid for 24 hours from first use, for all routes and as many rides to sights as you want to see.
The Copenhagen Card can serve visitors nicely as a low-cost tour guide: it includes a comprehensive guide of Copenhagen and gives travelers free local transportation, free admission to sights and attractions (for example, more than 60 museums are free!), and many other traveler-related discounts. Free transportation includes getting to and from the airport and discounts on car rental. 
 The Grand Tour of Copenhagen 
 The Hamlet Castle Tour from Copenhagen 
 Copenhagen Panoramic City Tour (with Cruise) 
 The "Hop On Hop Off" Bus Tour of Copenhagen 
 A Guided Tour Using the Copenhagen Card (CPHCard) 
If you are planning a trip to Copenhagen, you'll need transportation to your hotel and back to the airport after your visit unless you are visiting someone there who can provide transportation. You can take a cab, but it's usually a cheaper option to hop onto an airport shuttle. (As of August 2018, neither Uber nor Lyft was operating in Copenhagen.) Also, some Copenhagen hotels provide free shuttle service to and from the airport. Ask your hotel if that's available when you book your reservation.
You can also use a reliable, private transfer service so you don't have to wait for any other travelers and can avoid delays. An English-speaking driver picks you up (waiting for you at the airport or at your hotel) around the clock. 
Shuttle Direct transfers travelers between Copenhagen and Copenhagen Airport. You can book it for one-way in either direction or round trip for your return to the airport. If you're going from the airport to Copenhagen, the shuttle will take you directly to your hotel. You can either book a shuttle in a mini-bus that will include other passengers and will pick you up at a designated location or a private transfer that provides door-to-door service for your group exclusively.
A luxury airport transfer service is also available in Copenhagen, provided by companies such as MyDriver and World Airport Transfer. Prices are higher since the service is aimed at business travelers and luxury travelers. These services provide both minibusses and private cars.
When booking one of these private airport shuttle services, provide your flight details and hotel information for your visit to Copenhagen once you have the information available. This will ensure that the shuttle driver knows exactly when and where to pick you up.
If you don't want to take the shuttle, here are some other ways to get from the airport to Copenhagen: 
  Shuttle Services  
  Luxury Shuttle  
  Shuttle Tips  
  Other Transportation Options  
The train: This is the best option if you want to go to the city center. The train takes you from the airport to the Central Copenhagen Station in less than 15 minutes. These trains also run from Terminal 3.
The bus: Hop on bus 5A for a ride to many popular destinations in the city, including City Hall Square and Copenhagen Central Station. It takes about 35 minutes to go from the airport to Central Station. 
A taxi:  You'll find taxis waiting at Terminals 1 and 3.  A taxi will get you to the Copenhagen city center in about 20 minutes (or longer if the traffic is heavy). 

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Known for its design scene, culture, and first-class gastronomy, Copenhagen isn’t exactly a cheap destination. But don't let the capital of Denmark's high price tag deter you from visiting — the city has plenty of budget accommodations to choose from, so you can keep your kroner for all the rest of the experiences you’ll be having. Just because these hotels can be booked for less (mostly under 100 euro a night) doesn't mean you'll be staying in a hovel, either. Copenhagen's budget stays are really quite good if you just put a little time into researching. And guess what? We've done just that. Read on for our top picks, from a wallet-friendly downtown spot to surprisingly chic hostel.
Courtesy of Hotel Kong Arthur
No, that’s not a typo: Kong means “king” in Danish, and for a budget property, this 155-room hotel will make you feel like one. This old residence — once the home of 19th-century apprentices — is well-maintained and well-designed, with hygge touches like fireplaces, stacks of books, window sills piled with pillows, and a daily "Cozy Hour" where the hotel serves up "a little something" for guests. Remarkably, this hotel also has a great spa on site, as well as three restaurants that serve Italian, Spanish, and Japanese cuisine. The hotel’s rooms, available in both single and double formats, are clean and individually decorated, and those who book a spa package will get a spa room for bonus relaxation. If you’re traveling with your family, the double superior rooms can accommodate two extra beds for little heads. Guests can also join in on the hotel's running club (with free access to the spa facilities after) and get on the guest list for live music at a nearby jazz club. 
Courtesy of 66 Guldsmeden
Located on the main street of Copenhagen’s trendy Vesterbro neighborhood, this hotel — part of the same group as the Axel Guldsmeden — pulls out all the stops for parents and kids. Staff is lovely and very welcoming of children, and pets, for that matter, which starts a stay off right. Guest units are simple but lovely, with dark wood and art made by the owner’s father-in-law. The hotel is close to transit with a bus station one minute away, as well close proximity to attractions like Tivoli Gardens, which is about a 15-minute walk from the hotel. Back in the neighborhood, there’s plenty of parks, art galleries, and local eateries to discover. Speaking of food, breakfast isn’t free, but the on-site restaurant is ultra-cozy on a winter day with heated balconies and a fireplace. We recommend asking for a room facing the courtyard or in the annex for a quieter stay. 
Courtesy of Ibsens Hotel
Aside from a great nightly rate, this three-star hotel also adheres to admirable eco-friendly practices, making it a feel-good stay for not only your wallet but the environment as well. Guests love the staff who are efficient and friendly, and the location is great, too as it’s just a five-minute walk to the metro, from which it takes 15 minutes to get to the airport. The trendy Noerrebro neighborhood is also within walking distance, and the Nansensgade area next to the hotel has cute local shops and cafes, as well as a monthly flea market. Rooms are well-decorated for the price point, with stylish pops of color and modern furnishings. Do know, however, that the bathrooms are actually designed as wet rooms, so don’t be surprised if things get damp. Breakfast isn’t included, but it’s a good spread and everything’s organic (one child in each family can eat free as well) if you opt to pay for it out of pocket. 
Courtesy of Steel House Copenhagen
Let's get one thing straight: a hostel can be just as nice as a hotel — and this hostel, run by a hotel group, proves it with an easygoing vibe and a whole mix of guests, including families and older adults. If you haven’t stayed in a hostel before, prepare for this one to shake the lodgings' less-than-flattering stereotype from your mind. Steel House Copenhagen is stylish and fun with great staff who are extraordinarily helpful and amenities like foosball and pool tables. Dorms are simple but very clean, with an ensuite toilet and shower, bunk beds, and private lockers. Private rooms are also available for travelers who want to maintain their space. Surprisingly, Steel House also has an onsite gym and pool, though there is a separate fee to use them. We love the USB charging ports scattered throughout, which helps eliminate the need for adapters if you’re trying to travel light.
Courtesy of Axel Guldsmeden
Stylish and modern, the Axel Guldsmeden is a romantic retreat that’s also quite centrally located in town. Rooms are done in a sexy, modern Balinese style, with gorgeous woods and four-poster beds in each of its 202 rooms. If you want to splash out on a higher-end (but still budget) room, there are four penthouse suites complete with private rooftop terraces and hot tubs. There’s also a spa on site, as well a great restaurant, Cafe du Nord, that won't run you much more than city restaurants. Guests also rave about the staff: Everyone is incredibly friendly and helpful with recommendations and advice. Interestingly enough, Axel Guldsmeden is the “test” hotel for new concepts within the larger Guldsmeden chain, so be sure to ask if there’s anything fun going on when you check in. 
Courtesy of Hotel Windsor
Located within walking distance of Copenhagen’s major attractions — the Tivoli Gardens, Nyhavn, and more — Hotel Windsor boasts a wonderful downtown location just a one-minute walk from the Norreport metro station. Rooms are simple and unfussy (you won’t stay here for the design) but are bigger than the pictures make them look and are really clean. There’s a shared kitchen available for use, too, so you can save a bit of money by preparing a picnic lunch, or having a late dinner when you get back (there’s a market close by with a great selection of produce). Breakfast is conveniently included in the room rate, and it’s served at a sister hotel that’s a couple minutes’ walk away. Keep in mind that toilets and showers are shared at this hotel. That said, communal bathrooms are the norm at budget stays in Europe — especially when it comes to older hotels. 
Courtesy of Hotel Nebo
If you’re getting into town late or leaving the city early, you’ll want a hotel that’s not too much of a schlep from the train station or airport, and Hotel Nebo is just that. The hotel has 87 rooms and, though its furnishings are a bit dated, it’s well-suited for one night’s sleep. Both the hotel and train station are centrally located, so if you have a few hours to explore, you can easily reach key attractions by foot. If you’re traveling by air, it’s also just 12 minutes from the airport to the front desk. Travelers like the variety of room sizes available, with everything from single rooms with shared bathrooms up to quadruple rooms and apartments for larger groups traveling together. Breakfast is simple but free and conveniently begins at 6:30 a.m. for those with morning departures. 
Courtesy of Cabinn City Hotel
If you’re traveling on your own, Cabinn City Hotel is one of the few spots in Copenhagen where it isn’t too painful to not have a partner splitting the bill. Guests say you get what you pay for: Compact rooms that come with a private bathroom (just know in advance it’s wet-room style, so the floor might get splashed), and a really basic breakfast — though rooms also have kettles, which is a nice touch. The design actually plays into the smaller room size quite well. Each unit is designed to look like a cabin on a boat (hence the name of the place, too). Overall, it’s a cheap place to crash, and its downtown location will get you where you need to go in the morning. Cabinn City Hotel is just a 5-minute walk from the central station and close to Tivoli Gardens and the main shopping street. 
Courtesy of Bed & Breakfast Copenhagen
Located just outside the city center but with a metro stop about an eight-minute walk from the property, Bed & Breakfast Copenhagen is a great choice for travelers seeking a more close-knit stay in Denmark’s capital. With great value for money, this bed and breakfast offers large, scrupulously clean rooms, some with king beds. As fitting for a bed and breakfast, the owners are incredibly hospitable and take time to explain top sights and attractions to guests checking in. Travelers on a budget find the kitchenette super-convenient for packing lunches ahead of a day out in the city. Nearby, there’s a beach area, and the B&B's surrounds are home to creative types like artists, who have moved into the old warehouses in the neighborhood. Just be aware that rooms tend to get booked early (many guests stay long term), so plan ahead if you’re looking to stay here.
Our Process 
Our writers spent 3 hours researching the most popular budget hotels in Copenhagen. Before making their final recommendations, they considered 45 different hotels and read over 90 user reviews (both positive and negative). All of this research adds up to recommendations you can trust.
  Best Overall: Hotel Kong Arthur  
  Best for Families: 66 Guldsmeden  
  Best Boutique: Ibsens Hotel  
  Best Hostel: Steel House Copenhagen  
  Best for Romance: Axel Guldsmeden  
  Best Downtown: Hotel Windsor  
  Best for Stopovers: Hotel Nebo  
  Best for Singles: Cabinn City Hotel  
  Best B&B: Bed & Breakfast Copenhagen  
