Spain's biggest guitar festival takes place in Cordoba each July. Many cities in Spain have flamenco festivals (see In a Similar Vein, below), but only Cordoba celebrates the instrument that has spawned so many musical genres over the years.
Yes, there'll be flamenco, but there'll also be pop concerts, classical performances, jazz, blues and more.
Where to Get Tickets
Tickets will be made available on the Festival de la Guitarra Tickets Page.
There are also some free shows at the festival.
The Festival de la Guitarra de Cordoba takes place in early July.
In Cordoba, in the southern region of Andalusia.
Official Festival de la Guitarra de Cordoba Website
Cordoba is most famous for its Great Mosque (Mezquita), once the biggest mosque in the world and now home to the city's cathedral.
Read more about Cordoba or see Pictures of Cordoba's Mosque-Cathedral.
Cordoba is situated roughly half way between Seville and Granada and is on the high-speed AVE train line from Madrid to Seville. It is also easy to get to Cordoba from Malaga.
Read more about how to get to Cordoba from these cities:
Alternatively, go directly to Book Trains in Spain or Book Buses in Spain.
Cordoba is a popular day trip from Seville or as a day trip from Granada, but to properly experience the guitar festival you will need to stay a night or two.
If heading south, visit Seville or Granada - both are great. If you're heading north from there, Madrid is an obvious choice:
  What is Festival de la Guitarra de Cordoba?  
  When is it?  
  Where is Festival de la Guitarra de Cordoba?  
  Visiting Cordoba  
  How to Get to Cordoba  
  Accommodation in Cordoba  
  Where to Go Next  
  Related Events  
Seville to Cordoba
Granada to Cordoba
Madrid to Cordoba
Malaga to Cordoba
Cheap Hotels in Cordoba with Free Cancelation with Venere
Book Private Apartments and Rooms on Airbnb
Book Backpackers Hostels and Budget Hotels with Hostelworld
50 Things to Do in Seville
Things to Do in Madrid
Things to Do in Granada
 Other Events Near Cordoba in July The International Festival of Music and Dance takes place around the same time, in Granada. There is also the Mijas Blues Festival on the Costa del Sol as well as the Imagine Funk Festival in Jaen.
 In a Similar Vein...There are lots of Jazz Festivals in Spain as well as dozens of Flamenco Festivals in Spain, but to get both in the same event (and more!), you should make your way to the Cordoba festival.
