Ireland's capital city is compact and easy to navigate on foot, which means that if you plan to stay in the city center, you might not ever need to take public transportation in Dublin. The central area is small enough that walking is usually the most efficient way to get around the city. But even though Dublin is fairly condensed, it still has a fantastic and easy-to-use public transportation system. Between the bus, LUAS, DART and train networks, there are so many ways to get around Dublin, that you'll actually be spoilt for choice.
With extensive public transportation at the ready, there is really no reason to ever drive a rental car into Dublin as a tourist. Cars bring all sorts of additional problems with traffic jams, getting lost or caught in one-way systems even locals have problems with, and high rates for paid parking. In fact, instead of driving yourself, you are much better off using public transportation or taking a taxi in Dublin when walking just won’t do.
There is no subway or underground system in Dublin, so the best transportation option inside the city center is the bus.
The name might be a dead giveaway, but Dublin Bus is the main provider of road-based public transport in the Irish capital. If, however, you are only planning on seeing the main sites in Dublin, it might be worth choosing a hop-on-hop-off tourist bus that is run by a private tour company rather than depending on the public bus. These tours stop near all the major attractions, tickets cost more than the regular bus fare are valid for the whole day, and the buses take a circular route so there is really no chance of getting lost.
However, if you are feeling up for the rush of navigating a new city like a local, or are planning to go off the well-beaten track, Dublin Bus is the provider of choice. The first order of business should be to get a bus map, preferably at the main office on O'Connell Street, where they have all the information you need including tours.
Buses in Dublin are double-decker style and, like all traffic, drive on the left side of the road (an important point to remember when you are trying to decide which direction to take the bus).
Learning how to catch a Dublin Bus takes a bit of practice because you may need to flag them down to stop, even when you are standing at a marked stop (which are blue signs with the bus company’s logo). Some of the routes covered by Dublin Bus can, at times, be on long and winding roads, and connections to other routes might be inconvenient. But you will get almost anywhere in the capital and suburbs for an affordable price.
You can buy tickets directly on the bus, but you can only do so using Euro coins. No bills or cards are accepted and no change is given, so it is best to have the exact fare already counted out in coins in your hand, ready to drop into the machine next to the driver when you board.
Adult fares for Dublin Bus purchased on board are:
One child under 5 can travel for free with a paying adult.
Child fares (up to age 16) for Dublin Bus purchased on board are:
You can use the official online Fare Calculator to determine the correct fare if you are not sure of how many stages you will pass through. Or, simply ask your driver. Paying the correct fare is important because there are sometimes ticket inspections and having the wrong ticket can result in a €100 fine.
If you are planning to take Dublin Bus or other Dublin public transportation extensively, it may be worth investing in the LeapCard. The reloadable travel card offers slightly lower fares on every journey and using one means you will never have any hassle dealing cash on board.
The LUAS (initially known as the Dublin Light Rail System) is tram connecting the city center to the suburbs that is named after the Irish word for "speed.” Dublin's LUAS is the city’s newest form of public transportation and includes two lines: one starting at St. Stephen's Green, the other at Connolly Station (now extended to the Point Village in the Dublin Docklands).
LUAS trams are fairly fast, but they are also very popular, meaning they can often be slightly cramped at rush hour. They run along roads and on some stretches of dedicated track. The LeapCard is also valid on the LUAS, or tickets can be purchased on board. You can find a map of stops, timetables and pricing information on the LUAS website.
Dublin Area Rapid Transit, always shortened to DART, is one of the most convenient ways of public transport in Dublin – but only if you are planning to go from north to south (or vice versa), and if you are planning to travel along the coastline of Dublin Bay. These trains are the easiest and fasted way to visit Malahide (with its pretty castle) and Howth in the north, down to Greystones in the south.
These Dublin neighborhoods make for fantastic trips out of the city, but keep in mind that they are also major commuter towns so trains will be crowded in the mornings and evenings. However, DART trains are easy to use and also connect (in a loose, geographical sense) to the LUAS at Connolly Station, and to suburban and intercity services at several other stations as well.
As the name implies — the Suburban Rail Network serves mainly the Dublin suburbs and the so-called "commuter belt." The latter extends further into the country than you might imagine, a legacy of the Celtic Tiger years. The long-distance train rides may be bad news for the workforce (long commutes from satellite towns), but the rail network offers intrepid travelers the chance to reach interesting Irish towns that lie quite far beyond Dublin. Trains are frequent during rush hour but you may find long pauses in the timetables during the middle of the day and on weekend. The Suburban Rail Network is not very helpful for travel within central Dublin and is mostly used for destinations that lie off the DART routes.
Bus Eiréann is Ireland's national bus transportation provider in the Republic, but it does not run in competition with Dublin Bus. This means that you may see Bus Eiréann running on the same routes or using the same stops as Dublin Bus with one major difference: Bus Eiréann buses will only pick up passengers traveling outbound, to destinations beyond the reach of Dublin Bus, and will only drop off passengers traveling inbound from these same places. You cannot use Bus Eiréann for trips within Dublin city center, but it is worth knowing about the well-used service if you are traveling to or from Dublin to other parts of Ireland.
Specifically, you may find some connections into the suburbs and into the "commuter belt" (extending ever further) that suit your travel needs. These same destinations within the greater Dublin area may also be reachable by Dublin Bus, but Bus Eiréann will be the faster (and more expensive) option by road.
Bus Eiréann is at its best if used for day-trips to destinations outside Dublin. For timetable and services information, check the Bus Eiréann homepage — which might also give you some good travel deals when booking ahead online. Otherwise, you can pay for tickets inside Bus Eiréann stations or directly to the driver when boarding. Unlike Dublin Bus’s double-decker fleet, Bus Eiréann buses are usually newer, coach-style buses with free Wi-Fi and even charging ports in the seats. Luggage can be stored underneath the bus before boarding.
Taxis are regarded as part of Dublin's public transport system and since deregulation, actually finding a taxi has become much less of a problem. Dublin taxi drivers have a bit of a reputation for being ready to chat, joke, and share their (sometimes uninvited) opinions on everything from politics to family matters. Some unscrupulous cabbies have been known to take the unwary tourist down the not-really-scenic-but-certainly-more-profitable route, but this is not common.
Taking a taxi in Dublin city is recommended particularly at night if it means you can avoid walking down poorly lit side streets, or at any time of day to save journey time if there is no alternative direct service. A taxi to and from the airport can also be a good option, especially if you are not staying near convenient bus stops for the airport bus routes. Taxi prices are, naturally, higher than those of all other public transport alternatives — but bear in mind that with a taxi you pay for the whole cab, while on other services you pay per passenger. Do the math because sharing a taxi between other travelers in your group can work out to be quite an affordable option.
There are multiple ways to reach Dublin Airport using public transportation but the most affordable is by bus — either those run by Dublin Bus or by other private companies. The main transportation options between the airport and the city are:
There is no train connection to Dublin Airport though plans to add a rail link have been in the discussion phase for many years.
Driving in Dublin is not recommended because of traffic, the small size of the city center, the convenience of public transportation and the cost of parking. If you do choose to rent a car in Dublin, there are a few small rental agencies in residential areas of the city but it is best to pick up a car at one of the agencies near the Dublin Airport. Here you will find a greater selection (and free shuttles to and from the terminals). Keep in mind that you will have to pay a toll to enter Dublin via the M50.
  How to Ride the Bus in Dublin  
  LUAS: Tram into the City Center  
  DART: Train on a Coastal Route  
  The Suburban Rail Network  
  Bus Eiréann  
  Taxis  
  Getting to and From Dublin Airport by Public Transport  
  Rental Cars in Dublin  
€2.15 (for Stages 1-3, which covers all journeys within the city center)
€3.00 (for Stages 4-13)
€3.30 (over 13 Stages)
€7.00 (Airlink 474 bus to the Dublin Airport)
€1.00 during school hours (Monday to Friday until 7 p.m. and Saturday until 1:30 p.m.)
€1.30 during all other hours
Bus: There are a number of different buses available here, for both travel into Dublin, and travel to other Irish destinations. All buses leave within an easy walking distance of Terminal 1 but the walk to more modern Terminal 2 is considerably longer. The most popular bus is Airlink 747 which makes multiple stops in the city center and costs €7 for a one-way ticket. All other buses to the city center stop in the same area at the airport so you can also choose to take whichever arrives first.
Dublin, despite its relatively small size, is one of the most vibrant cities in Europe and also tends to be one of the more expensive cities—low airfares are just the start of any journey, and travelers tend to be surprised by the prices in Ireland's capital city.
Traveling on a shoestring budget can be tricky, but there are still things to be had for free or at least for the moderate cost of a day ticket on Dublin Bus or the DART.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto 
Even if Dublin's urban traffic is constantly vacillating between two extremes—either near-standstill or manic speed—the city still has a lot to offer for those willing to walk.
As long as you avoid crossing the busiest streets without heeding traffic, walking is also safe and, especially surprising for U.S. visitors, normal in Dublin. However, rush hours even on the sidewalks can be difficult to manage for even the most experienced tourist.
For the visitor, several routes are signposted highlighting different aspects of the city. Information on these is available at the Tourist Information Centres, sometimes with free maps. Alternatively, try a self-guided tour through the city which will show you some great bits of Dublin costing a thing.
A walk to the main attractions of Dublin should take you about half a day to complete, while a walk along the banks of the Royal Canal past Croke Park, Mountjoy Prison, over the M50, and into Blanchardstown will take you most of a day to complete. Alternatively, you could stroll casually along the River Liffey through the city.
Bernd Biege
Dublin is jam-packed with sculpture in public places—including works by Henry Moore—but one has to know where to look. From the towering Spire in O'Connell Street to the cinema usher near the "Screen," you can spend an entire day hunting down sculpted masterpieces in Dublin.
Alternatively, take a walking tour to explore Dublin's often amazing—though, at times, quickly-vanishing—street art, massive murals, or colorful small additions to the city's walls. Graffiti artists from around the world leave their marks all over Dublin, but city officials are quick to cover up these spray-painted murals, so you never know what you'll see or how long it'll be there after you leave.
 Ron Cogswell/Flickr/CC BY 2.0
While you're looking at the sculptures and graffiti walls on Dublin's streets, don't forget to stop and watch the street buskers performing, and if you're a really big fan of street performers, be sure to visit Dublin in July for the World Street Performance Championship, which is also free of charge.
Although tips are greatly appreciated you can watch hours of entertainment free of charge just by wandering around popular tourists areas until you come across a bit of music or dance.
Wikimedia Commons/CC BY-SA 3.0 
The Irish Capital of Dublin knows how to throw a party, and no matter what time of the year you visit the city, you're sure to find an annual festival celebrating the culture, history, and diversity of this island nation.
In January, check out the Temple Bar TradFest for a sampling of Irish music and dance, and in February, the Jameson Dublin International Film Festival brings cutting-edge cinema from around the world together for a weekend of screenings and awards. In March, the St. Patrick's Day Festival takes over the city for a number of days, and in April, you can grab a book at the Literary Festival or pig out on fresh seafood at the Dublin Bay Prawn Festival.
The summer really heats up with events, and in May, get your groove on at the Dance Festival or hear some of the newest stories at the Writers Festival. In June, the world-renowned Bloomsday Festival and the colorful LGBTQ Pride Festival take over the city streets, and in July, enjoy live entertainment at the World Street Performance Championship. Finally, August's Ukulele Hooley and September's Culture Night close out the summer in style.
When the weather gets cooler, festivals move indoors starting with October's Dine in Dublin Restaurant Week, which offers tourists and residents a chance to enjoy some of the city's best cuisine for bargain prices. The Dublin Book Festival in November and the NYE Dublin Festival in December close out the year, as do a whole slew of holiday events and celebrations.
Bernd Biege
Dublin Bus offers some great routes for tourists—and they include a free tour of Dublin. Although these are not regular tours of Dublin, they are the normal public transport routes Dubliners take to work and play daily.
Grab a great value bargain with a Leap Card (which will also give you access to the rail services of DART and LUAS) and a bus map. Then hop on any of the routes going through the city center and you will be sure to see the city like it really is, in all its sprawling splendor.
If you've got a taste for the macabre, consider a visit to the Glasnevin Cemetery, which is just a short walk away from the National Botanical Gardens.
Glasnevin Cemetery became the first Catholic cemetery in Ireland when it was opened in 1832, a result of Catholic rights activist Daniel O'Connell pressuring the city to allow for Catholic burial ceremonies to be conducted in Dublin. Over one million Dubliners have been laid to rest in this historic burial ground including notable historic Irish figures like Charles Stewart Parnell, Daniel O'Connell, Éamon de Valera, and Michael Collins.
Visitors can take daily tours of the museum and cemetery, experience a state-of-the-art interactive exhibit, and even find their ancestors in the Genealogy area.
 William Murphy/Flickr/CC BY-SA 2.0
Embrace the bike-sharing culture of Dublin by renting a bicycle from one of 40 vendors across the city and cruising to some of the best tourist destinations with relative ease. With over 450 bikes on demand throughout the city that you can "rent" for 30 minutes for free, using the DublinBikes service is a great way to save on transportation costs during your trip.
Download a free app so that you can track your time and make sure you don't get charged for going over 30 minutes; if you need more time, just check in your bike and take out another to reset the "free ride" timer.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto  
Located centrally in Dublin, no less than three national museums of Ireland are open and free to visitors, each of which holds some priceless collections: the National Museum in Kildare Street, the National Museum in Collins Barracks, and the Natural History Museum.
Visit the National Museum in Kildare Street for Prehistoric, Celtic, Viking, and Medieval History or check out the National Museum in Collins Barracks for arts, crafts, numismatics, and the military history of Ireland. Also, don't forget the other unique Natural History Museum, also known as the "Dead Zoo."
Also free of charge is the stunning Chester Beatty Library, which is worth half a day's visit on its own. Its collection of ancient and medieval books and artworks is simply gorgeous, but there may be a charge for special exhibitions.
Additionally, the National Gallery of Ireland at Merrion Square has an eclectic collection, some of which were bequeathed by George Bernhard Shaw to the gallery. Art on display includes "big names" as well as lesser-known artists, and the collection is especially strong on Irish art and artists. Take note that while entrance to the main collection of the National Gallery is free, there may be a charge for special exhibitions.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto 
Visiting the Chester Beaty Library is especially great for a rainy day in Dublin—of which there are many. Established in 1950 for Sir Alfred Chester Beatty to house his collection of religious texts, this library is free to the public and contains some of the best scholarly articles and texts on the Old and New Testament as well as Islamic and Far Eastern artifacts. 
The library is also home to samplings of the world's artistic, religious, and secular heritage, with a collection of manuscripts and texts that dates back to 2,700 B.C.
While St. Patrick's Cathedral and Christ Church Cathedral do charge an entry fee (outside mass hours), numerous splendid churches are free to visit in Dublin, though they may be a bit off the beaten path.
St. Mary's Pro-Cathedral on Marlborough Street allows visitors to enjoy the Palestrina Choir at mass on Sundays while St. Ann's on Dawson Street still distributes loaves of bread to the poor in the neighborhood. Meanwhile, Our Lady of Mount Carmel on Whitefriars Street features a Carmelite church housing the relics of the old romantic Saint Valentine.
Check out the Byzantine hidden gem known as the University Church on St. Stephen's Green or Our Lady of Lourdes on Sean MacDermott Street, which holds the remains of the Blessed Matt Talbot, Dublin's saint-in-waiting.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto 
A day spent at the park is the perfect way to people-watch in Dublin. Simply take a seat on a strategic bench in any of Dublin's city center parks and watch as Dubliners go about their routines. On any given day, whole dramas of Shakespearean proportions may unfold in front of you.
St. Stephen's Green is especially known for the lively "performances" given by office workers, tourists, school children, and shoppers. Merrion Square is generally quieter though still lively while the Dubh Linn Gardens are discreetly tucked away, and the Iveagh Gardens are nearly unknown.
Although Dublin has a number of great parks within the city limits, exploring Dublin's Phoenix Park in total could take days. Here, you can see stately houses (including the residences of the Irish president and the U.S. Ambassador), Ashtown Castle, wild deer, the Papal Cross, and the Magazine Fort—all within the confines of the world's largest urban park.
Getting to the park is not as much of a problem as it seems at first—from the Liffey River near Heuston Station, the park is just a five-minute walk. However, keep in mind the real walking starts after you pass through the main gates as there are miles to discover once you arrive.
 Wikimedia Commons/CC BY-SA 2.0
Once you're done walking through Phoenix Park, stop by Aras an Uachtaráin, the official residence of the President of Ireland. Constructed in 1751 and most-recently enlarged in 1816, this historic home was occupied by British viceroys from 1782 to 1922 then British governors-general until Ireland declared its independence in 1937.
Free tours depart from the Phoenix Park Visitor Centre every Saturday on a first-come, first served basis, and you should always call ahead before planning your trip as official state business will sometimes close the tour unexpectedly.
However, if you do manage to grab a free ticket, you'll be able to see five staterooms and the president's study along with a 10-minute video explaining the property's rich history.
Howth really has it all—bracing cliff walks, spectacular vistas, lots of fresh air, a busy harbor, and even wild seals. If you want to come eye-to-eye with marine mammals, Howth is the place to go. You can spend anything from an hour to a whole day here as there should be plenty going on any day of the year.
While it would be possible to walk to Howth from Dublin's center as it's just a few miles down Dublin Bay, the easier alternative is to take either the bus or hop onto the DART train as both forms of transit to terminate in Howth, and the bus even takes you up to Howth Summit.
Take a southbound DART from the city center and ride the rails to Dun Laoghaire where you can walk through the harbor and along the promenade to Sandycove, finally arriving at the James Joyce Tower and Museum, which is also free to visit. Another great attraction out in South Dublin Bay is the nudist beach at the "Forty Foot," a popular destination for naturalists from around the world.
Alternatively, you can stay on the DART a bit longer and arrive in Bray, the once fashionable suburb of Dublin known for it Victorian-era promenade located in County Wicklow. From here, you can easily take a cliff walk to Greystones, and both Bray and Greystones are connected by DART so you can return back to Dublin without having to retrace your steps. 
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto 
Founded in 1592 by Queen Elizabeth I and modeled after Oxford and Cambridge, visiting the campus of Trinity College is like walking through Dublin's history. One of the seven ancient universities of Britain and Ireland and the oldest-surviving college on the island, Trinity College is free to visit.
However, you will have to pay for a chance to see the famous Celtic epic "The Book of Kells," which is on display at the college's Old Library. Located on College Green across from the historic Irish Houses of Parliament, you can also take in a bit of the governmental history of Ireland all in one trip to this historic district.
 William Murphy/Flickr/CC BY-SA 2.0
North Bull Island is a popular destination for nature-lovers visiting Dublin and just a short bus ride away from the city center. At this UNESCO reserve, enjoy the sandy Dollymount Strand beach that runs the entire length of the three-mile island or bird-watching in the National Bird Sanctuary that over 180 different species of flying creatures call home. 
Other attractions include kite-surfing, swimming, golfing at the Royal Dublin Golf Club or the St. Anne's Golf Club, and exploring 19th-century architecture like the Bull Bridge.
Still in operation more than 200 years after its construction in 1768, the South Wall Poolbeg Lighthouse was reputedly the first one in the world to operate its beacon by candlelight.
Located at the far end of the two-mile-long South Bull Wall, which was the longest seawall in the world when construction finished in 1795, walking to the Poolbeg Lighthouse is a great way to catch some fresh air relatively close to the city.
To get there from Dublin's city center, you can take the Dublin 1 bus toward Sandymount and get off at Seafort Avenue or take a cab to the parking lot for the sea wall itself. From the Seafort Avenue bus stop it's about three and a half miles (an hour's walk) to the lighthouse, but departing from the parking lot cuts off about half the time.
Miguel Mendez/Flickr/CC BY 2.0 
Located just under two miles from the city center, the National Botanic Gardens is another popular free day-trip for nature lovers who visit Dublin.
Originally established in 1795, Richard Turner added curvilinear glasshouses to the property between 1843 to 1869 which still house the latest in botanical technology including computer-controlled climate rooms that create natural environments that can sustain exotic plants from around the world.
 Take Walking Tours of the City 
 Go Sculpture and Street Art Hunting 
  Watch Dublin Street Performers  
  Attend Festivals in the City  
 Ride the Dublin Double-Decker Buses 
  Visit Glasnevin Cemetery  
 Share a Free Bike With DublinBikes 
 Find Free Museums, Libraries, and Galleries 
 Find a Book at the Chester Beaty Library 
  Visit Lesser-Known Churches  
 Spend a Day in One of Dublin's City Parks 
 Explore Phoenix Park 
 Tour the President of Ireland's House 
 Howth Summit and Harbor 
  Relax in South Dublin Bay  
 Visit the Campus of Trinity College 
 Wander Through Nature on North Bull Island 
  Take in the View From the South Wall Lighthouse  
 Smell the Flowers at the National Botanic Gardens 
What are the best Dublin souvenirs to bring home? Of course, you should be there to capture memories, first and foremost, many people also want a little piece of Dublin to take away with you. Luckily this is a thriving business and there are lots of Irish souvenirs to find in Dublin at the many shops that cater to tourists. You can find Dublin souvenirs at small local stores, the museum shops, and even the souvenir emporia run by Carrolls Irish Gifts, which seem to pop up nearly everywhere. Between these stores, the goods on offer come in many forms, including cheap imported stuff to expensive homemade wares. So what should you ultimately get to remind you of Dublin?
Well, here is a list of the best Dublin souvenirs that money can buy. Depending on your preference and budget, so will last only a short while but others may well outlive you. But in the end, they all will delight you without ever breaking the bank. 
The “Doors of Dublin” are an iconic image – they represent historic Georgian Dublin and the whole city. Though not all parts of Dublin still feature Georgian buildings, some of the most beloved areas like St. Stephen's Green are known for this classic architecture. A collection of the photos is the perfect Dublin souvenir to take home. The easiest way to do it yourself would be to go on long walks around the Georgian squares, and snap away at your heart’s delight. Half an hour of a leisurely stroll around Merrion Square or Fitzwilliam Square should fill up your memory card nicely. Or simply stroll into the nearest souvenir shop – you’ll find them as posters, postcards, fridge magnets all thanks to the image's icon status.
If you have a sweet tooth, the best place to satisfy it in Dublin would be at Butlers – these “Purveyors of Happiness” will indeed do their best to elevate your mood. From the factory near the airport (which is actually open for tours) to their own chain of Butlers Chocolate Cafés, the sweets are easy to find around Dublin because there are more than a dozen shops in the city. As an added bonus, you get a free praline with every coffee, so you might sample your way through quite a selection, before deciding which to take with you. Pick your favorites, or just grab a pre-packed box. And no need to carry it around with you all day: there are airside Butlers Chocolate Cafés in both terminals at Dublin Airport too.
Here’s the thing – if the Book of Kells is your thing, you will only see a small part of it anyway, and only for a very short time because only one page is on display every day in order to protect the old text. That is really not enough to take in the marvel of the illuminated gospels, created in Scotland, but now kept in Trinity College Dublin. So why not take the Book of Kells home with you as the ultimate Irish souvenir? This is easier than you might think (you can stop that “Mission Impossible” theme tune playing in your mind). The shop at Trinity’s Old Library offers everything you can think of regarding their most famous exhibit. From coffee mugs with selected images to popular or scholarly works on the book, and even complete facsimile editions of the whole Book of Kells.
.Dublin is a city of writers, and a designated UNESCO City of Literature, part of the Creative Cities Network. Why? Well, think of all the Dublin writers – W.B. Yeats, George Bernard Shaw, Samuel Beckett, Nobel laureates all. And then those (at least by the Nobel committee) unsung heroes of Irish literature, like Brendan Behan, Bram Stoker, Rodd Doyle, Sheridan Le Fanu, Christy Brown. And the Big Dublin Daddy of them all, James Joyce, who in his “Dubliners” and “Ulysses” made the city immortal. So why not visit the Dublin Writers Museum, their excellent bookshop at the rear can be visited without paying the entrance fee. And has a selection that should satisfy most needs.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto
It is rare that a commercial product is as much identified with a city (and a whole country, come to that) as Guinness is with Dublin and Ireland more broadly today. The brewery even uses one of Ireland’s national symbols as a trademark, the harp, and the museum dedicated to “the black stuff” is Ireland’s most successful tourist attraction. Dublin without Guinness? Famed writer Brendan Behan would have shuddered at this thought because this is one of the most iconic drinks in Ireland. This makes anything branded with “Guinness” quite a good Irish souvenir to find in Dublin, though you’ll be a walking advertisement for the company. Guinness goodies are available literally everywhere, but the best (and largest) selection can be found in the Guinness Storehouse itself. And you’ll be amazed at just how colorful and inventive the designers can get.
A quick stroll through Dublin will quickly convince you that the most popular sports team in Ireland is … Manchester United. And every sports store offers branded items from the major English and Scottish clubs (Glasgow Rangers excepted). But the real heartbeat of Ireland skips to the ups and downs of the Gaelic games, football, hurling, and camogie. So why not get some Gaelic games team gear as a souvenir? It does not have to be the blue Dublin outfit, provincial club colors are on sale in the capital as well, with the shop at Croke Park carrying the best selection.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto 
Remember when it was oh-so-hip to wear sweats that proclaimed you were at UCLA, Oxford, or Cambridge? If you still like the look, the Students Union at Trinity College Dublin can satisfy your every need. With a whole range of branded items. From sweatshirts to flannel pajamas, from Harry-Potter-esque scarves to ties that tie you in with the old-boys-network. Don't forget the mugs and teddy bears either, all of which are branded with the Trinity College seal, or other appropriate imagery. While you might get cheap imitations elsewhere, these are the real thing. And you can claim “I went to Trinity College”. Who mentioned actually studying there?
The most famous statue in Dublin may very well be the “Tart with the Cart”, better known as the bronze depiction of fishmonger Molly Malone. A monument to Dublin folklore, with a monumental bosom, and a frilly blouse that shows it off. Now the real Molly Malone may have looked very different, but the buxom image has been imprinted upon a billion brains and can now be found printed on everything in any souvenir shop – from the ubiquitous fridge magnet to small replicas of the famous statue (or, at least, something very similar to it). Be ready to break into song with a rendition of "In Dublin’s fair city."
If you want to take some Irish whiskey as a souvenir with you, you should certainly head for the Old Jameson Distillery in Smithfield. Just a short walk from Dublin’s city center, and offering that special something other shops cannot – exclusive bottles that are only available from the Jameson company direct. Not cheap as chips, but a slightly more expensive way to get a bit of a buzz. These are whiskeys made to be enjoyed pure, not dumped unlovingly into a coke, or wasted in cocktails. This Dublin souvenir is whiskey for the connoisseur, which, frankly speaking, is the only whiskey worth buying as a souvenir … as alcohol prices in Ireland are high, and you might get most brands cheaper at home.
These people do fish, nothing but fish, and they do it so well … that people want to take the fish home with them. Which, unless you live nearby, might be a bit of a problem. But trust Wrights of Howth to find a solution – and thus they can now provide packs that will survive a transatlantic flight without any problems. The secret? You buy them at Dublin Airport, airside in both terminals at the Wrights shop. The store assistants are helpful and will advise you on the ins and outs of taking a smoked salmon on board.
Tayto’s Crisps are as Dublin as it gets, as Irish as a shamrock, as beloved as fish and chips for a snack. The classic chips come in a cheese and onion flavor that every Dubliner grew up eating. And the spud-man “Mr. Tayto” has become an Irish icon, with his image creeping up on everything. While the best variety of goods is sold at Tayto Park in County Meath, from car fresheners (not smelling of cheese and onion, one hastens to add) to toys, you’ll find Tayto crisps in any shop. Go on, you really want to take a few home …
Note that in the list above some “typically Irish” things are missing, like Waterford Crystal, or an Aran Sweater. Why? Because they are not souvenirs of Dublin. But you can get them in Dublin, if you want to. And if you need to make any last minute purchases, fret not – the “House of Ireland” has outlets at Dublin Airport, and a very good selection of souvenirs too. And if you are wondering about all the shopping you can do before landing in Ireland - here is more on Irish customs regulations.
  The Doors of Dublin  
  Butlers Chocolate Delights  
  The Book of Kells  
  Dublin Writers’ Books  
  Guinness Goodies  
  Gaelic Gear  
  Trinity College Treats  
  Molly Malone in Miniature  
  Jameson Irish Whiskey  
  Wrights of Howth  
  Mr. Tayto’s Finest  
  Final Note  
Recommended for anybody, really.
Disadvantages? You might get hooked on photographing them and try to find as many as possible … which may seriously eat into your Dublin time!
Recommended for anyone who really enjoys chocolate.
Recommended for the book lover, and (amateur) mediaevalist.
Disadvantages? None really, only if you opt for a poster then be sure that it is protected by a sturdy cardboard tube for the trip home.
Recommended for serious readers and visitors who are brave enough to tackle real literature.
Disadvantages? Joyce and Beckett may leave you a bit puzzled, Stoker and Le Fanu a bit nervous, Behan a bit thirsty (but all will still keep you inspired to see more of Dublin)
Disadvantages? It is “Big Beer” advertising, after all, and not really that original but at least it is a real Dublin original.
Recommended for sporty people, though the large-sized shirts will hide a modest beer belly quite well.
Recommended for anyone, really, academic or not.
Disadvantages? None one can think of, though bluffing your way into a job by wearing a Trinity tie may backfire.
Recommended for those who cannot think about Dublin without thinking about sweet Molly Malone.
Disadvantages? It is a cliché … and the depictions are more pop culture than realistic.
Recommended for those who really know how to enjoy their whiskey, not for the casual drinker.
Disadvantages? They are heavy, they contain liquids – airlines frown upon whiskey bottles in your carry-on, and you need to protect them really well in checked luggage.
Recommended for anybody who cannot face reintegrating back home without a dose of Irish salmon.
Disadvantages? There are limits on how long salmon may stay fresh, so be careful. And it also helps to know the import regulations back home.
Recommended for lovers of snacks, who brave (and crave) the unique cheese and onion chip rush.
Disadvantages? Well, they are gone really fast, and they are highly breakable. But even if you flatten the pack in transit, you can still make a Tayto sandwich with them (yes, two pieces of buttered white bread with crushed Taytos as a filling).
The Irish capital city may be small but it has plenty of sights, experiences, and activities to suit any taste and work with any budget. How much you can see and do often comes down to how much time you have to spend exploring. Luckily, many of Dublin’s must-see attractions are within easy reach of the city center—and even within walking distance—which leaves plenty of extra time for other essential Dublin activities including stops for pints and tea.
From castles to live music sessions, quirky museums, and iconic streets, here are the best things to do in Dublin.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto
It might not live up to your fairytale expectations, but how many cities have their very own castle? Dublin Castle dates all the way back to Viking times, though that old fortress has since been expanded, renovated, torn down and rebuilt over the centuries. Most of the fortifications have disappeared and the castle is now mainly used for government offices. The main tower and the Royal Chapel still have a medieval look about them while all administrative buildings done up in more modern styles—adding to the mix of architectural influences which makes this one of the best castles in Ireland. Though many of the offices are closed to visitors, the beautiful gardens and impressive state rooms are a must-see on any visit to Dublin.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto
Guinness goes with Dublin like milk and cookies. The famous Irish beer was born in the city and nowhere is the stout more the center of attention than at the Guinness Storehouse. Based at historic St James's Gate, the now touristy (but fun) Guinness factory is housed in part of the original brewery. A tour of the old storehouse will lead you through the history of the drink, how the beer is brewed and even teach you how to pour the perfect pint. However, the real highlight of the tour is the free pint in the stunning Gravity Bar, which offers some of the best views of the city.
Dublin, and Trinity College, in particular, is home to one of the most important illuminated manuscripts in the world. Every page of the Book of Kells feels like a work of art—with its scrolled Latin script that records the Gospels and its elaborate decoration. The book dates back to 384 A.D. and was probably created by three different artists and four different scribes, all working together on a religious-themed masterpiece. No trip to the Irish capital is really complete without a pilgrimage to see the book, which is split into four volumes and housed in the university’s library. Because the 1,600-year-old pages are so delicate, there are usually only two volumes on display at any given time: one open to a page which shows the beautiful illustrations, and another open to demonstrate the way the script was written. 
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto
O'Connell Street is Dublin's main traffic artery with a central pedestrian area that is dominated by statues and monuments like the famous Spire. The largest and most impressive of the buildings which line the Dublin street is the General Post Office (GPO), scene of the 1916 rebellion. The GPO was faithfully rebuilt after being shelled by artillery and, in addition to being the head office for Ireland's postal service, now offers an entire museum dedicated to the 1916 Rising: the "GPO Witness History" in the basement. 
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto
No visit to Dublin is complete without a stop in Ireland's largest church (and the National Cathedral). St. Patrick’s Cathedral was officially founded in 1191 by Archbishop Comyn, but most of the architecture that is visible today is a result of a huge renovation funded by a member of the Guinness family (yes, that Guinness) between 1844 and 1869. The result is an impressive neo-Gothic cathedral with some older details hidden away. Here you will also see the graves of Jonathan Swift (who wrote "Gulliver's Travels") and his beloved Stella.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto
Over the years, Temple Bar has been an abandoned marshland, a well-to-do neighborhood, a scrubby artistic enclave, and finally Dublin’s premier nightlife destination. During the day, you may find street artists peddling homemade wares or typical Irish souvenirs in the small shops which line Dame Street and the surrounding lanes. However, the Temple Bar district is really known for its lively bar scene. The area is full of pubs, many of which have live music every day of the week. Temple Bar has rightly been accused of being a bit touristy and expensive but it is a fun spot for a few pints. Enjoy the jolly mood and leave before 10 p.m., when things have a tendency to go from cheerful to rowdy.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto
Founded in 1592 by Queen Elizabeth I, Trinity College is still an unmissable part of the Dublin landscape well over 400 years later. The campus feels quiet and studious and the sounds of the and bustling city seem to disappear as soon as you walk through the gates onto College Green. Take a tour to really understand the history of the buildings and to learn more about everything that has been accomplished on the grounds. Then, peek inside Trinity College Library, which is home to more than a million books and some priceless manuscripts—including the "Book of Kells," which is a Dublin attraction in its own right. 
Christ Church Cathedral was built in 1030 and, with nearly 1,000 years of history, is the oldest building in Dublin. It is one of the best examples of medieval Dublin architecture and is the final resting place of Strongbow. The Cathedral became a part of the Church of Ireland in 1153 and is still the seat of the Church’s archbishop of Dublin. After admiring the 12th-century crypt, be sure to stick around to hear some of the cathedral’s 19 church bells ring away. 
Is there anything more Irish than listening to a live session while sipping on a pint? Dublin is brimming with great pubs to suit any taste, and all stand at the ready to pull that pint of Guinness. Stop into O’Donoghue’s for vegetable soup with a side of live music, or make your way out to The Cobblestone, which describes itself as a “drinking pub with a music problem” and hosts traditional Trad sessions every night of the week.  
Located on the edge of the city, Phoenix Park is the world's largest enclosed municipal park with enough to keep the average visitor busy for days. Naturally, there are paths for strolling along the green hills, or working in a vacation run, but you will also find the magnificent residences of both the Irish President and the United States Ambassador to Ireland. After peeking through the imposing iron gates, keep exploring to find quaint cricket and polo fields, Ashtown Castle and even herds of deer roaming free. Phoenix Park is also home to Dublin Zoo, as well as numerous monuments and memorials. 
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto
Dublin is a city built along the Liffey and the river is a defining part of the Irish capital. Take in the scenery by waltzing across the iconic Ha’Penny Bridge. The cast-iron bridge is fully pedestrianized and can be found near the Temple Bar area. It takes its name for the halfpenny toll that used to be charged to walk across its planks and pretty scrolled railings. These days it is completely free and you may even find entertainment in the form of live musicians playing an Irish tune along the walkway. (And keep in mind that locals pronounce it as “hey-penny.”)
Stockbyte / Getty Images 
Running between Stephen’s Green and the entrance to Trinity College, Grafton Street might be considered the true heart of Dublin. It is also rumored to be the only street in the city without a pub. Fear not—there are plenty of cozy pints to be had nearby, but Grafton Street is where to come to see lively street performers and buskers (musicians who play for tips), as well as to do a bit of shopping and take in the cheery atmosphere. 
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto
The city of Dublin has some of the best museums in Ireland, but one truly notable stop has to be the National Museum of Archaeology and History on Kildare Street (Dublin 2). The museum specializes in prehistoric and medieval Ireland (with some Egyptian artifacts thrown in for good measure). This is the best place to build an understanding of long-ago Irish history, catch a glimpse of bog bodies, as well as explore the entire wing dedicated to the Viking Age in Dublin, where models show what daily life would have been like. If you have more time, keep the exhibits coming with a trip to the National Museum dedicated to decorative arts and more recent history.
 
Tracey Kusiewicz/ Getty Images
For a truly greasy and totally satisfying meal, nothing can beat a trip to the “chipper” for fish and chips. Every local has their favorite spot for this iconic Irish supper, so arguing about the best fish and chips in Dublin is almost pointless. Decide for yourself by trying different versions from the likes of Beshoff Bros, Leo Burdock (who started frying fish way back in 1913), or The Lido (135a Pearse Street), which is popular with students thanks to its location a short walk from Trinity College. There is something universally appealing about fish and chips, but the mushy peas are optional. 
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto
With the LUAS zipping along the tracks, double-decker buses whizzing by, and even a few horse-drawn carriages thrown in for good measure, there is a certain buzz about Dublin. This is especially true right off of Grafton Street, one of the main shopping areas in the city. Luckily, there is a green escape a few minutes inside ​St. Stephen’s Green. The small park is a tiny oasis in the center of the city, complete with swans and a duck pond. On mild days, take a sandwich with you for a picnic – but don’t be afraid to visit in rainy weather either. Regardless of the time of year, you can always walk through to see the famous statues and memorials to figures from Irish history.
Hugh Lane Gallery 
Dublin has several world-class museums and quirky little exhibits, but one of the loveliest little museums to see is Dublin City’s own gallery, named the Hugh Lane Gallery.  The free gallery is a quick walk from O’Connell street and even though it is central, it is almost always quiet. That means you will be able to admire works by Degas, Manet, and Renoir, without the hustle and bustle of the city crowds outside the door. The true highlight of the little museum, however, is the art studio of Irish painter Francis Bacon, which has been completely reconstructed inside the museum. 
Chiara Salvadori/Getty Images
 
Now known for its government offices, Merrion Square is one of Dublin’s Merrion Square is also one of the best places to see Georgian architecture in Dublin. The brick townhomes that ring the square were built in the 1760s and have a classic style about them which hints at their aristocratic history. Oscar Wilde was born at No. 1 Merrion Square, and the poet W.B. Yeats lived at No. 82. Their houses aren’t open for visits, but any visitor can still walk by and take a photo of the famous doors. The colored entryways are so closely associated with the city that their images make for a perfect Dublin souvenir. 
 Jennifer Boyle/ Flickr (CC BY 2.0)
Dublin’s two main cathedrals (St. Patrick’s and Christ Church) are unmissable religious landmarks, but one of the more unique churches in Dublin is tiny, simple St. Michan’s on Halston Street on the north side of the city. The wood-lined chapel has a few interesting artifacts but most people admittedly visit for the mummies. A small, short tour will lead you under the church where the mummified 17th remains of influential Dubliner’s can be seen in five small burial vaults, along with the desk mask of famed rebel leader Wolfe Tone.
The Shelbourne Hotel 
Some people say that you haven’t seen Dublin until you have had tea at The Shelbourne. The capital’s most famous hotel puts on a lovely afternoon service complete with dainty cakes and is simply the place to see whos-who of the city. For an artistic touch, walk a few blocks further to The Merrion, where you will find tea cakes inspired by the hotel’s extensive collection of paintings. Of course, you can always find a humbler “cuppa” to warm up at most of the city’s cozy pubs and cafés. 
Dublin is probably most famous for being the home of Guinness, but Jameson Whiskey was also born in the city—right on Bow Street. Production has now moved out to the countryside, but it is still possible to visit the old distillery to learn more about the history of the beloved Irish spirit. Naturally, a tour includes a comparison tasting of whiskey, bourbon, and scotch, as well as a whiskey-based cocktail to really unwind at JJ’s Bar.
Ireland's native sports are not well known outside of the country but local fans go crazy for GAA. There is no better way to learn about the fast-paced sports of hurling and Gaelic football than by attending a game in person. The atmosphere at Dublin's Croke Park is electric when the teams (representing their home counties) take to the pitch. Even if the schedules don't line up, you can still visit the famous stadium and take a tour, with a stop at the GAA Museum. 
  Walk the Halls of Dublin Castle  
  Visit the Guinness Storehouse for a Pint From the Source  
  Admire the Book of Kells  
  Stroll Down O'Connell Street and See the GPO  
  Pay Homage to Saint Patrick's Cathedral  
  Have a Night Out in Temple Bar  
  Get an Education at Trinity College  
  Marvel at Christ Church  
  Pop Into a Pub for Live Music and a Pint  
  Catch Your Breath in Phoenix Park  
  Walk Across the Ha'Penny Bridge  
  Shop on Grafton Street  
  Get a Taste for History at the National Museum of Ireland  
  Eat Fish and Chips  
  Picnic in St. Stephen's Green  
  Get an Art Fix at the Hugh Lane Gallery  
  Go Georgian at Merrion Square  
  Get Spooked By the Mummies at St. Michan's  
  Stop for Tea  
  Raise a Glass at the Old Jameson Distillery  
  Catch an Irish Game at Croke Park  
Many visitors worry about the Irish rain, and hold off on planning trips until summer, but the best time to visit Dublin is actually in April or May when the spring weather arrives, but the crowds stay manageable, or in October before the truly cold temperatures return. Certain holidays, such as St. Patrick’s Day (March 17th) and the weeks leading up to Christmas (December 25th), are also great times to be in the Irish capital in order to experience a festive (if rainy) atmosphere.
While there is never a true dry season in Dublin, the summer months tend to have the warmest weather—as well as the crowds. Coming to Dublin between June and August becomes a tradeoff between (hopefully) more sunny days and the higher prices and long lines that come with the high season. However, you should be prepared with a jacket and warm layers regardless of when you visit Dublin because the city tends to stay temperate and cool throughout the year.
In order to make the most of any trip, here is your guide to the best times to visit Dublin.
Some of the best times to visit Dublin coincide with the city's most unique events. Since the 1990s, Dublin has been throwing a St. Patrick’s Festival to celebrate March 17th. The festivities draw crowds of merry-makers and now stretch over the course of 4-5 days every year. Be sure to book hotels as far in advance as possible because accommodation will be at a premium. June 16th is also a beloved local holiday when literature lovers celebrate Bloomsday in honor of James Joyce. Finally, Christmastime brings a decidedly festive air to the Irish capital.
Certain sights close during the winter season in Ireland's more rural corners, but there is no need to worry about major shutdowns in Dublin because the city keeps its tourist attractions open all year. The only thing that does change radically is the price of hotels and airfare, which skyrocket in the summer months. Avoid staying in the city in July and August in particular if you want to find a deal that better fits your budget.
After the holiday buzz of December, January in Dublin tends to be quiet and rainy. The first month of the year is one of the coldest and wettest times, making it the ideal moment to be inside somewhere listening to traditional music. On the plus side, hotel prices and flights tend to be cheapest at this time, so it can be one of the best times to visit if you are on a budget. While snow is very unlikely, this would be the time when temperatures are most likely to drop below freezing.
Events to check out:
February remains one of the coldest times to visit Dublin, but the low temperatures (usually in the 40s) also mean smaller crowds. This could be one of the best times to see sights like the Book of Kells or St. Patrick’s Cathedral without waiting in any lines. Of course, there are always plenty of Dublin pubs to pop into if things get especially dreary outside.
Events to check out:
It is impossible to talk about March in Dublin without referring to St. Patrick’s Day. March 17th is a national holiday in Ireland and the biggest celebration of them all takes place in Dublin. While the cool, rainy month is otherwise fairly quiet, the crowds arrive for the festivities (and the pints).
Events to check out:
April is one of the best times to visit Dublin because the spring weather can bring some of the mildest days of the year, but the summer crowds are still weeks away. That being said, it can also be unpredictable, so be prepared for everything from pouring rain in the mornings to sunny afternoons. Have a rainy day back up plan, but also set aside some time to explore the parks in the city center to catch the first flowers popping up among the green lawns. 
Events to check out:
The month of May can be the ideal time to visit Dublin because the average temperature reaches into the 60s, which is positively balmy for the location. You might still need an umbrella on some days, but this is when you are most likely to catch the city on a sunny day with smaller crowds. 
Events to check out:
June is when Irish high school students finish up their leaving cert (final pre-college exams), and other young people from around Europe flock to Dublin for English language classes. The post-school vibes add to the happy energy the entire city vibrates with as it sits on the cusp of summer. The mid-60s temperatures are some of the highest of the year, which attracts even more crowds to the capital. Be prepared for lines at major sights and steep hotel prices to go along with the relatively sunny days.
Events to check out:
Prices stay high during July, which is a part of the peak tourist season in Dublin. If you don't mind the crowds, there is plenty to do, as the warmer weather brings some of the best outdoor events of the year to the parks around the city.
Events to check out:
The warmest average temperatures in Dublin occur in August when thermometers reach up into the high 60s. That doesn’t mean you can leave your jacket at home because there are still summer storms to contend with. Plus, crowds. August is one of the most popular times to visit Dublin, and the huge numbers of visitors can put a damper on any trip, even when the weather is fine.
Events to check out:
Hotel prices tend to be highest in September as visitors flock to the city for festivals and one last trip before school starts up again. If you don't mind the added expense, it is a great time to come to Dublin because the autumn weather means warmer days and cool nights, with just a hint of fall in the air.
Events to check out:
October is another excellent time to visit Dublin because the summer crowds disperse and high hotel prices fall back down to earth. The temperature stays in the high-50s on most days, but October is one of the rainiest months in Dublin. Luckily, the city is well used to the wet weather, so a little extra drizzle shouldn't rain on your travel parade. Pack waterproof gear and get out to enjoy Dublin without any tourist congestion.
Events to check out:
Cold weather sets in during November, driving most locals indoors. There is nothing wrong with a winter trip to Ireland, but plan your days inside at museums, galleries, and pubs accordingly. You can also take advantage of the lower prices to splurge on a hotel with a real fireplace to dry out and warm up after a day of exploring.
Events to check out:
December in Dublin can bring a nip in the air, but there is also plenty of good cheer to warm your heart before the Christmas holiday. Lights decorate the streets, and pubs are full of locals catching up before the end of the year. The general good mood and lower prices (at least before the late December crunch), make it a great time to be in Dublin.
Events to check out:
  Must-See Dublin Events   
  Prices During Peak Season in Dublin  
  January  
  February  
  March  
  April  
  May  
  June  
  July  
  August  
  September  
  October  
  November  
  December  
Dates change a bit every year, but the Temple Bar Tradfest is usually held towards the end of January in Dublin and highlights live Irish music in some of the city’s historic buildings.
Movie lovers can catch the Dublin International Film Festival which usually begins in late February and runs through early March.
The most Irish of all holidays, St. Patrick’s Day, occurs on March 17th. It is a major event in Dublin, where parades and events take place over five days during the St. Patrick’s festival.
Strike out for Howth to get a taste of the Dublin Bay Prawn Festival.
 Businesses will close on Easter Sunday, which sometimes falls in April. If this is the case, there will also be events to remember the 1916 Easter Rising. 
Watch the impressive water sports on display at the Dublin Docklands Summer Festival.
June 16 is Bloomsday – the day that Dublin celebrates James Joyce because the author’s famous book Ulysses is set on that very date.
Celebrate Dublin Pride in support of LGBT Ireland.
Rock out to the best international and Irish bands during a musical weekend at Longitude Festival.
Delight young imaginations at the Festival of Curiosity. 
Dress up for a day at the races with the Dublin Horse Show.
Fire up the BBQ, and dig into the foodie event known as the Big Grill Festival.
Catch unique performances at the Dublin Fringe Festival.
Celebrate the Irish holiday of Halloween with the unique Bram Stoker Festival. The Dracula creator was a Dubliner by birth, so expect plenty of costumed vampires. Also, celebrate the past at the Dublin Festival of History
Find a new novel and attend talks by Irish writers at the Dublin Book Festival.
Ring in the New Year with Liffey Lights Midnight Moments and the other events that make up New Year’s Festival Dublin. 
With just over a million people, Dublin is by far Ireland’s largest city. However, the Irish capital is actually fairly compact, and it is easy to explore the city center on foot. Most of Dublin’s main sights are within walking distance of each other, but there is more to be experienced around town.
From the stately Georgian architecture around St. Stephen’s Green, to the all-day party atmosphere of Temple Bar, and out to the foodie haven of Ranelagh and the seaside communities just beyond the central part of the city, Dublin has a different neighborhood to suit every taste.
There is something about the city of Dublin that charms and captivates visitors and locals alike. Author James Joyce (one of the city’s more famous past residents) once said: “When I die, Dublin will be written on my heart.”
Here are the 10 Dublin neighborhoods you must explore, but be ready to fall head over heels and leave a part of your heart behind.
 
Chiara Salvadori/Getty Images 
The area around St. Stephen’s Green and Merrion Square is known for its Georgian architecture. The historic brick townhomes here give the central area a timeless air. The addresses are considered to be some of the best in the city because the neighborhood is perfectly positioned to easily reach quiet, manicured parks or the lively Grafton Street shopping area in a few minutes on foot.
This Dublin neighborhood boasts some of the best, classic hotels in the city and is a hop, skip, and a jump away from Trinity College. After admiring the homes south of Butt Bridge, wander back to explore some of Dublin’s best museums, including The Little Museum of Dublin and National Museum of Ireland, which are both found in this Georgian corner of the capital.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto 
With live music every night and a general attitude that more beer is always a good idea, Temple Bar is Dublin’s most famous neighborhood for a good time. Before it became more developed, the area was previously a small artist enclave in the center of the city.
There are still some creative businesses to discover in the storefronts by day, but Temple Bar is best known for being the place to be after dark. Visitors and locals hit these cobblestone streets looking for a bit of craic (Irish for fun), but the pints are also known as being some of the most expensive in the city. However, the price might be worth it for the party-like atmosphere.
 Dragos Cosmin photos/Getty Images
One of the most beloved areas of Dublin is the neighborhood around Christchurch and St. Patrick’s Cathedrals. An incredibly central district, this is where to stay to be in the true heart of the city. The location is full of pubs and restaurants but fairly free from any rowdy behavior. Exploring the 1,000-year-old Christchurch Cathedral is almost a requirement, but the neighborhood is also a quick walk to major attractions like the Book of Kells and Trinity College, not to mention Dublin Castle and the Guinness Storehouse. The only drawback is that hotel prices tend to be higher here compared to other parts of the city, but the convenience makes up for any added expense. 
 William Murphy, Flickr (CC BY-SA 2.0) 
The well-to-do areas of Ranelagh and Rathmines sit next to each other just outside of Dublin’s city center. The neighborhoods are an easy taxi ride from the major sights but feel much quieter and residential compared to the heart of the capital. The neighborhoods are known throughout the city for their gourmet food shops, excellent eateries, and cool bars. Book a table and come out on a Saturday night to dine on some of the best food in Dublin while getting a fix of people-watching outside of the usual Irish pub scene. 
Maremagnum/Getty Images
Within easy reach of the center of Dublin, the Ballsbridge and Donnybrook area is known for its old family homes, good restaurants, and a historic graveyard. Safe, affluent and residential, the quieter neighborhood is well connected to downtown Dublin by bus, so it is easy to get around without having to deal with the crowds at every hour of the day. This is also where you will find the city’s main Rugby arena and many pubs that are dedicated to watching to the rough-and-tumble sport. After a few pints in a traditional pub, head out for dinner at the popular restaurants that draw Dublin dwellers here from all over the city. 
William Murphy, Flickr (CC BY-SA 2.0) 
International visitors may be most interested in major attractions like Dublin Castle and the Book of Kells, but many Irish visitors come to Dublin to watch a match at Croke Park. Ireland’s largest stadium is found in the Drumcondra neighborhood of Dublin, north of the River Liffey. The up-and-coming area is popular with Irish sports fans, as well as students and young professionals who are drawn to the suburb by relatively lower rents within easy reach of the city. With plenty of new restaurants and bars, there isn't even a real need to go into central Dublin in order to have a great time. 
You can also get a taste of the fresh Irish air by starting at Drumcondra bridge and walking along the canals to Castleknock, or head in the opposite direction to reach the city center in about 20 minutes on foot. 
 
Amanda Sarkis / EyeEm/Getty Images
The charming fishing village of Malahide is a Dublin suburb found close to the airport, just outside of the center. The largely residential area is well connected to the city, which lies about 10 miles away. With more of an Irish village feel, the neighborhood is a great break from the buzz of the city and is a popular day trip destination. Home to Malahide Castle, one of the ​best castles near Dublin, the area has plenty of attractions to explore in its own right. After admiring the castle, explore the park and botanical gardens nearby before hopping back on DART to reach Dublin once more. 
 
David Soanes Photography/Getty Images 
The coastal village of Howth is one of the best areas to stay in for a taste of Irish seaside living on the edge of Dublin. The pretty suburb is located on the northern side of the greater Dublin area but is still easily accessible thanks to DART.  The true fishing village sits in a harbor framed by two piers, and its seafront is full of restaurants and bars to while away the day. Or pack your walking shoes to undertake the Howth Cliff Path Loop, a two-hour marked trail that skirts the edge of the ocean and offers great views of the town’s Baily Lighthouse. Howth is an ideal day trip from Dublin, but also offers a fantastic option for those who want to stay outside of the main city while remaining within easy reach. 
 William Murphy, Flickr (CC BY-SA 2.0) 
This charming seaside village south of Dublin is one of the prettiest areas around the city. The Norman castles and 10th-century church draw in history lovers, but it is probably the tranquil setting that most appeals to famous residents like Bono and Enya. After exploring the town, you can catch a ferry to Dalkey Island or rent a kayak to paddle through Coliemore Harbour. The district is an easy bus ride from Kildare Street, which means that a trip out to the coast can be as easy as staying in town. 
Leverstock (Getty Images)
 
Pronounced “Dunleary,” this Dublin suburb is a mere 20 minutes from the city center. That means that you can be walking along Sandycove beach or jumping off the Forty Foot diving tower like a James Joyce character in no time. The harbor town is a good base just outside of Dublin, or the perfect day trip destination for a bike ride and an ice cream break overlooking the crashing waves. For a spot of shopping, don’t miss George Street and be sure to leave enough time to experience Dun Laoghaire’s Maritime Museum. 
 St. Stephen’s Green 
 Temple Bar 
  Christchurch  
  Ranelagh and Rathmines  
  Ballsbridge and Donnybrook  
  Drumcondra  
  Malahide  
  Howth  
  Dalkey  
  Dún Laoghaire  
Dublin is the capital of Ireland and is the largest city in the country. The city center is small but lively and full of characteristic pubs and restaurants, shopping districts, theaters, parks, government buildings, and museums.
Dublin is a lovely European city that is easy to navigate thanks to its compact size but still offers plenty to keep any visitor busy. Come for the small town feel of the local pubs, and stay for the fine dining, castles and world-class exhibits. Here is how to make the most of your trip to Dublin:
Best time to visit: The best time to visit Dublin is in late spring (April and May) and early autumn (September). These months offer the best combination of smaller crowds but better weather. Dublin weather tends to bring at least 10 days of rain a month, regardless of the time of year, so be prepared with a small umbrella in every season. The warmest days arrive in June, July, and August, but these months tend to bring huge crowds of visitors and English-language students.
Language: The spoken language in Dublin is English, with a heavy dose of local Irishisms and expressions thrown in. You may also notice that many street signs and other notices are also translated into Irish. It is rare to hear Irish spoken, but it is the first official language recognized throughout the country of Ireland.
Currency: The currency used in Dublin is the Euro. International credit cards are also widely accepted, but it is a good idea to have some cash on hand – particularly if you plan to take Dublin Bus, which only accepts exact change in coins.
Getting around: The best way to get around Dublin is to walk. The city is compact enough that most of the major sites and best places to eat can be reached within 15 minutes on foot so renting a car is usually more hassle then it is worth. If you prefer to use public transportation, stop by O’Connell Street for a map and schedule of Dublin Bus.
Dublin is also fairly flat which makes it an easy city to bike, as long as you are confident about sharing the left side of the road with regular traffic. DublinBikes is a cycle sharing program stands throughout the city where you can unlock and rent a bike to drop off at any other station using a three-day pass or an annual card.
If you are looking for a riding-hailing app, MyTaxi (previously Hailo) is the most popular taxi app in Ireland. Taxis can be found at stands in the city center, as well. Uber Black does exist but it is much less common than in the US.
Travel Tip: It is never bad to be the early bird, but things in Dublin tend to open a bit later than in other cities so don’t be ashamed to sleep in a bit – you won’t miss a thing.
Small but busy Dublin has something to suit every taste, but it will particularly appeal to visitors who like to explore parks and admire classic Georgian architecture before settling into a cozy pub to catch a live Irish music session. In between, there are cathedrals, museums, and lots of shopping opportunities to take advantage of, but you certainly cannot miss:
Explore more attractions with our full-length articles on the best things to do in Dublin, free things to do in Dublin and the best things to do in Dublin with kids.
One of the most typical places to eat in Dublin is in the pub. Bars often have simple menus full of food designed to fill you up before a night of pints. Expect to start with vegetable soup and a side of brown bread. Move on to the carvery, which is a buffet with meats like turkey, roast beef and ham (all with a generous side of gravy), plus mashed potatoes and cooked garden vegetables. Another Irish favorite is bacon and cabbage, which is a kind of ham with boiled cabbage. But, don’t expect to find corned beef in Dublin - that dish is more of an American invention. For lighter traditional fare, recent years have brought many newer farm-to-table restaurants like the Winding Stair to the city, which specialize in using fresh Irish ingredients in new ways.
Of course, it is possible to visit Dublin without drinking, but it would be a missed opportunity to try some of the local favorites. Both Guinness and Jameson whiskey come from the Irish capital and are available at pretty much any bar in the city. Create a self-guided tour of the best pubs in Dublin to find your favorite place for a pint, and mix things up with a Smithwick’s, Murphy’s or O’Hara’s – all Irish beers. The speakeasy and cocktail scene is expanding in Dublin, but it is still a city that is best for traditional pubs and a night of live Irish music.
One of the best areas to stay in Dublin is right around St. Stephen's Green. The well-heeled area near the park is central but quiet at night, with pubs and restaurants within an easy walk. Traditional hotels are very popular in Dublin though Airbnb has grown in recent years. However, given the relatively high rents in the city center, the prices for short-term holiday homes are almost on par with regular hotels.
Discover the different neighborhoods, or check out our recommendations for the best hotels.
The most direct way to get to Dublin is to fly into Dublin Airport. The airport is close to the city center and well connected by bus, as well as taxis. If you have rented a car and are planning to drive in Dublin, take the M50 into the city (but remember to pay the automatic toll online within 24 hours).
Dublin is the main hub of Bus Èireann, the national coach service which offers links from most Irish towns and cities, as well as from Belfast Airport (in Northern Ireland) and Shannon Airport (in the south of the Republic of Ireland). Dublin also has a train station, but the trains are generally more expensive and less frequent than the private buses running to the city.
Visitors will likely recognize many of the customs in Dublin as familiar but there are a few differences between what is polite in Ireland versus the US. Tipping, for instance, is almost never done at the pub (unless you are telling the barman to keep the change), and most restaurants add gratuity automatically as part of a service charge. Feel free to tip your tour guide, but don't leave any tips at a B&B or other family-run businesses. Here is a full guide with more information on tipping in Ireland.
Expect to hear a bit of swearing when you are out and about in Dublin. The swear words are used much more casually in everyday conversation and are not meant to be offensive. However, keep in mind that Dubliners never greet each other with "top of the morning to you," nor do they ever suggest a toast that includes "may the road rise up to meet you." Both of these sayings are Irish-American inventions and might make locals feel like you are making fun of them.
The center of Dublin is generally safe, but taking an official taxi at night is always the best way to get home.
  Planning Your Trip  
  Things to Do  
  What to Eat and Drink  
  Where to Stay  
  Getting There  
  Culture and Customs  
  Money Saving Tips  
Dublin Castle: book ahead to visit the richly decorated State Apartments, or stop by to admire the 13th-century towers and beautiful gardens. 
Trinity College and the Book of Kells: tour the beautiful university in the heart of the city and its famous library – home to the gorgeously illustrated Book of Kells.
If you need a break from the city buzz, pop into Trinity College or make your way out to Phoenix Park for a free place to wander and stroll. St. Stephen’s Green and Merrion Square are two additional free green spaces right in the city center.
Happy hour is not really a thing in Dublin, so don’t expect discounted drinks. Stick to Irish brands for the best value when you are out in the pub.
If you want to hear live music without buying a drink in a pub, walk along Grafton Street where street performers (known as buskers) set up to put on a free show in hopes of earning a few tips.
Dublin is a very walkable city but be sure to invest in a Leap Card if you plan to make a lot of use of public transportation. The reloadable card offers discounts on every trip.
You know you want to: if there is one opportunity to be as nerdy as you like, it is on travels. After all, nobody knows you. So, when visiting Dublin, why not give your inner nerd free rein? C'mon, there are people traveling on Harry Potter or Outlander tours through Britain, so why not have your fanboy (or fangirl) moment in Ireland's capital too?
At first sight, there might not be that much on offer, I admit. But here are my top picks for those who can admit to being ever-so-slightly different, from the closet comic buyer to the full-blown otaku. Not all of these may be available all the time, but with a bit of planning you can take in what you really want.
Comic books are often the first step on the slippery slope to full-blown nerd-dom, and who of us has not read about the exploits of the Man of Steel, to the Caped Crusader, the X-Men, or the Fantastic Four? Or, if you are more orientally inclined, has not run with Princess Mononoke, wandered with Lone Wolf and Cub, served with the Black Butler?
Dublin has a number of shops you should visit and these are specialist retailers, not your common-and-garden bookstore with a few graphic novels and manga in the far corner:
Also, have a look at Chapters on Parnell Street, Dublin 1 they do stock cut-price new and second-hand graphic novels and manga, though the actual range may fluctuate wildly. And also see the several comic cons below.
Most cosplayers only come out at conventions, so Dublin might be lucky in hosting a number of events that function as an outlet for these activities. If you don't know what cosplay is, you can read a small cosplay primer here - or just trust my word that it is basically "dressing up as your favorite fictional character". Very often influenced by Japanese culture, but not exclusive to the world of manga and anime.
The conventions to look out for would be:
Did you know that your favorite movie or TV series was actually filmed in Dublin? Ah, well that is a sweeping statement but if it has a Victorian feel to it, it might well be one of the streets of Georgian Dublin that provides the scenic setting. Think "Ripper Street" or check out the locations on the Internat Movie Database by searching for Dublin.
And remember that not only Victorian flair is Dublin's mark on movies from providing the background to "The Tudors" to the perfect location for several Jackie Chan stunts, Dublin Castle did it all. You might want to check out the impossible chase in "The Medaillon" for starters.
Finally, do not forget to visit the Irish Film Institute heaven for cinema buffs, with a good programme off the commercial track.
Let's not talk about video games or board games here - both can be found, but whether you get a better deal than at home, you decide. Though you might give Tara from Tailten Games a look, an Irish boardgame that is really beautiful.
Nope, let's go RPG and wargames, little figures going on adventure or to war. And there are two excellent shops in central Dublin that can provide for your needs:
Also have a look into the more conventional stores, if you are looking for odds and ends - Banba Toymaster comes highly recommended.
Dublin is full of museums, but if you are into science, head for Trinity College, but neither top study nor to see the Book of Kells instead make the Science Gallery your one stop for both science, art, and a good coffee. Note that there is no permanent collection, so between exhibitions (with a gap of up to three weeks), only the shop and café remain open. Check the exhibition calendar first, to avoid disappointment.
Fair's fair: most bookish people, or lovers of literature, won't see themselves as "nerds". Okay, followers of Terry Pratchett (who also has a Dublin connection) and other cult authors exempted. But still, let us spare a thought here for them.
 
  Dublin for Comic- and Manga-Nerds  
  Dublin for Cosplay-Nerds  
  Dublin for Movie and TV Nerds  
  Dublin for Game Nerds  
  Dublin for Science Nerds  
  Dublin for Literature Nerds (a.k.a. "Bookish People")  
Dublin City Comics & Collectibles at 46 Bolton Street, Dublin 1 - carries a decent selection of comics and associated merchandise (including some models), offered by knowledgeable and friendly staff.
Forbidden Planet at 5-6 Crampton Quay, Dublin 2 - the Dublin branch of the massive UK chain, on two slightly cramped levels they offer (almost) anything your heart may desire, but are not strong on older collectible items.
Sub-City at 62 Dame Street, Dublin 2 - the longest running Irish-owned comic store, owned by brothers Robert and Brian Curley who run the shop with a lot of love for comics and movie culture.
Arcade Con - in 2015 it was held over a July weekend at the Crowne Plaza Hotel, Blanchardstown, Dublin 15.
Eirtakon - taking over Croke Park in November for a weekend, maybe the most colorful con.
Ireland Cosplay Con - by fans for fans is their tagline, one Saturday in June at the Red Cow Moran Hotel for anime, comic and sci-fi fans, gamers, and cosplayers.
MCM Ireland Comic Con - very commercial event at the RDS Showgrounds in summer, especially well subscribed by traders, and offering interesting celebrity guests.
Nom-Com - Japanese animation and pop-culture convention at the Ballsbride Hotel, covers all areas of Japanese culture and fandom, from language lessons to Tokyo street fashion.
Gamers World at 1 Jervis Street, Dublin 1 - an independent games store that caters for board games, trading card games, miniatures, and gaming accessories. Offers a wide variety of ranges, from historical to Yu-Gi-Oh, from old favorites to the hottest games of the day which you can even try out at store events. Yes, they also stock Games Workshop (see below).
Games Workshop at Unit 3, Lower Liffey Street, Dublin 1 - the big advantage of this store it is Games Workshop. The big disadvantage of this store: it is Games Workshop. You'll find everything (usually) that makes up the current GW franchise, with Warhammer and Warhammer 40K being the strongest. You won't find anything that is not part of the franchise.
If Dublin has a towering literary figure it would be James Joyce. Though not amongst Ireland's four winners of the Nobel Prize for Literature, though more discussed than read, though Joyce himself left Dublin in disgust as early as 1904. With "Dubliners" and "Ulysses" he created literary monuments to his native city. Which in turn conveniently forgets that Joyce hated her. Though all Dublin can be seen as being of interest to the Joycean, here are the Essential James Joyce Attractions in Dublin.
Dublin Airport is Ireland's largest airfield and the main entry point for most visitors. Thanks to improvements and expansions, it offers several facilities to make travel as easy and comfortable as possible.
Make the most of your pre-flight time, or take advantage of a layover with this complete guide to Dublin Airport.
The British Army was behind the creation of very first airfield to open in Collinstown, the area outside Dublin where the modern airport is located. The military airstrip was placed here in 1917 during World War I, but it soon fell into disrepair following Irish independence a few years later.
Construction of what we now know as Dublin Airport began on the same site as the earlier Collinstown Aerodrome in 1937, and the airport opened in 1940. After a brief pause during World War II, the number of carriers serving Dublin continued to grow. By the late 1950s, regular flights were departing from Ireland to North America via Shannon Airport.
The increased demand for transatlantic flights led to the steady growth of Dublin Airport. Eventually, Terminal 1 was built in 1972, and the newer Terminal 2 followed, opening in 2010.
In 2018, 31.5 million passengers passed through Dublin Airport, and the popularity as a transit hub shows no sign of slowing down.
Dublin Airport is the largest airport in Ireland and it serves as a hub for European destinations as well as long-haul flights to North America, the Middle East, and East Asia. In 2019, 46 national and international airlines fly out of Dublin Airport.
It serves as the base for the national carrier, Aer Lingus, as well as the popular Irish budget airline RyanAir. The American-based carriers that fly to Dublin are American Airlines, Delta and United Airlines. Other major international airlines that fly through Dublin Airport include Air Canada, Air France, British Air, Cathay Pacific, Emirates, Icelandic Air, Lufthansa, KLM, Norwegian Air, Qatar, Swiss Air and TAP.
Because Dublin Airport is a major European hub for flights to and from North America, the airport is one of only two airports in Europe (the other being Ireland’s Shannon Airport) that has pre-clearance for passengers traveling to the U.S. That means that U.S.-bound passengers go through customs and border control in the Dublin Airport and are then treated as domestic arrivals when landing in the United States. If you are traveling to the U.S. from Dublin Airport, be sure to arrive three hours before your flight to leave time for these procedures.
Dublin Airport has two terminals. Terminal 1 is mainly for short-haul flights, including all Ryanair flights. Terminal 2 is usually reserved for long-haul flights and any flight operated by Aer Lingus.
Once past security, Terminal 1 has multiple shopping and dining options. Pop into Boots for personal items, magazines, cosmetics or to pick up a pre-made lunch to take on the plane. You can find Irish salmon at Wrights of Howth, clothes from Superdry, or travel accessories at Dixon's. Restaurants include pub-style food at Gate Clock Bar (near the 300 Gates), bar and grill at The Garden Terrace (The Loop), fresh salads at Chopped (The Loop), and Starbucks Coffee (The Loop).
Terminal 2 is newer and larger compared to Terminal 1 and has even more option for eating or duty-free shopping. Stock up on Tipperary Crystal or find souvenirs at the Guinness Storehouse shop. Avoca is another airport shop that specializes in Irish-made gifts. For fashion-conscious flyers, there are also LK Bennett and Hugo Boss stores inside Terminal 2.
Terminal 2 has plenty of coffee options near the 400 gates (Lavazza and the Java Republic). After U.S. pre-clearance, you can find last-minute snacks and light lunch items at Irish Meadows, but it is better to eat before leaving the main Loop area if you would like a sit-down option. There you can find Harvest Market (Irish breakfast or sandwiches), and Flutes Champagne Bar with wine and bar bites.
Other facilities and services at Dublin Airport include a pharmacy (Terminal 2 after security), International Currency Exchange (baggage area), multi-faith prayer room (Terminal 2), and baggage storage (Terminal 1, Arrivals hall).
There are several car rental companies serving Dublin airport, including Hertz, Avis, Europcar, Enterprise, Budget, Sixt and Dooley Car Rental. All have desks in the Terminal 1 Arrivals hall and most are also present in the Terminal 2 parking structure. There are regular and complimentary shuttle services provided to take you from the airport to the lots where you can pick up the rental car.
While it is possible to rent a car on the spot, this depends on availability. It is advisable to reserve a car via one of the company websites in advance and to purchase insurance. Also, keep in mind that the car rental liability offered by many American credit cards is not valid in Ireland so you will need to add obligatory insurance on top of the cost of the rental.
If you are driving your own car, there are several options for parking at Dublin Airport that are operated by the airport itself or by private businesses nearby. The prices tend to depend on if the parking is short-term or long-term, and how close the parking spot is to the airport (though complimentary shuttles are offered from every parking lot). Short-term parking is available within a two-minute walk from the airport, and valet services are available in all short term lots.
For the best price, you can pre-book a parking spot online. However, you do not need an existing reservation to park at the airport, and you can simply arrive and take a ticket when you leave your car. 
Dublin Airport is located about six miles north of the city center near the suburb of Swords. There are several ways to go to and from Dublin and the airport using public transportation, express buses, and taxis.
If you have rented a car or parked at the airport, you can self-drive between the city and airport via the M50 (which has an automatic toll without a toll booth, requiring you to either pay online or in person at various authorized SPAR shops within a few days).
One of the most popular and affordable ways to get between Dublin and the airport is via bus number 747. The express coach is also known as the Airlink and is operated by Dublin Bus. The bus travels between the airport, Dublin’s main bus station, O’Connell Street and the Heuston train station. Tickets can be purchased from the driver for 6 euros each way, or 10 euros round trip. The bus picks up passengers outside of the Arrivals hall in Terminal 1.
Aircoach is another private bus that runs between the Dublin Airport and the city. The trip costs 7 euros one way or 12 euros round-trip, and the buses depart every 15 minutes. In addition to O’Connell Street, Aircoach makes several stops in central Dublin, including Grafton Street. Kildare Street and Leeson Street Lower.
Dublin public bus number 41 also serves the airport and is the most cost efficient way to travel to and from the city. From the airport, take bus 41 for “Lwr Abbey St. Via Aerfort,” and this will stop at O’Connell Street in the city center. A one-way ticket is 3.30 euros.
Dublin taxis also travel between the city center and the airport. Taxis are available at ranks throughout the city, as well as just outside (to the right) of Terminal 1 Arrivals. The cost depends on traffic and how many passengers, but the taxi should always use a meter. The average cost is between 25 euros and 30 euros.
The airport is about a 25-minute drive from Dublin city center when traffic is light, but it can sometimes be easier to stay near the airport itself. The best options are the two hotels which are located at the airport itself. The Maldron Hotel Dublin Airport is the closest to both terminals. It is a three-minute walk from the airport but there is also a free 24-hour shuttle provided. The Radisson Blu is a 10-minute walk away, or just two minutes via its free shuttle bus.
The Clayton Hotel (formerly Bewleys Hotel) is located in Swords rather than inside the Dublin Airport complex; however, they offer long-term parking and a free shuttle to and from the airport. The hotel is usually a good value compared to other airport hotels and is only about a 10-minute drive from the terminals. 
  History  
  Largest Airlines and Major Destinations  
  Dublin Airport Terminals and Facilities  
  Car Rentals and Parking  
  How to Get to and From the Airport  
  Dublin Airport Accommodation   
Heading out of Dublin and into the wild does not have to be complicated. In fact, you can do so by public transport and even stay within the Dublin area. So, you need to feel a breeze, a bit of fresh air, a walk? But you are in Dublin? No problem ... if the several parks and gardens in and near Dublin's city ​centre are not enough for you, here are some suggestions a bit further afield.In alphabetical order, the next pages will show you Bull Island, the Phoenix Park, St. Anne's Park and Rose Gardens, and the War Memorial Gardens at Islandbridge.
This nature reserve and leisure beach is a paradise for birdwatchers, a good place for some beach life, a breath of very fresh air just a few minutes drive from Dublin City ... and home of the Bull Island Mouse.
In Dublin Bay, north of Dublin Harbour - it is accessible from the coastal road between Dublin and Howth.
Either by car (you can actually drive onto the beach) or by bus (take the 30 from Lower Abbey Street and walk across the causeway to the island).
All day and night.
Actually, Bull Island did not exist before the Bull Wall, a breakwater was built in 1825. And it was not planned ... but building the sea wall led to sands accumulating between the wall and dry land, which in turn led to Bull Island rising out of the sea.
When Darwin was working on his Origin of Species, the Bull Island Mouse was discovered and became one of the chief witnesses to Darwin's theories - it had evolved from the field and house mice of the vicinity, adapting to island life by changing its coat to a sandy colour. No wonder that the island is a UNESCO biosphere these days.
Nature and fun ... and cars. As it is legal to drive onto the beach, first impressions can be disheartening (you will occasionally be compensated by seeing a parked car being swallowed by the tide). The beaches are busy in summer, but the further you walk from the car park, the fewer people you meet. If you plan on plunging into Dublin Bay, take note that lifeguards only patrol between the two access roads!
is winds usually bring out the kite-surfers. Nature lovers should head for the modern information centre and then into the wild - the variety of birds is stunning, in winter you might even see Canadian geese. Do not, however, walk into the salt marshes ... you might get stuck.
Yes - lifeguards are on patrol to protect swimmers, and on daytime, visits getting stuck with your car is the greatest danger. There are no major reports on criminal or other dangerous activity during nighttime as well, but be warned: the Dollymount Strand is used as a "Lovers Lane" by many courting Dublin couples. Some courting quite vigorously in their parked cars ...
There is none - bring your own.
Phoenix Park in a Nutshell:
One of the largest parks in the world, and one of Dublin's main sights, the Phoenix Park contains a large number of attractions and is one of the favourite destinations for Dubliners wanting to get out of "the big smoke".
Take a map of Dublin - it is the big green area to the west of the city centre, just north of the Liffey. You cannot miss it. Mind you, you have to know where the entrances are ...
All roads may lead to Rome, but in Dublin, a large number make a detour via (or due to) the Phoenix Park.
You will be able to reach the park by Dublin Bus, head for Castleknock, the Cabra and Navan Roads, or Chapelizod (get off at Parkgate Street or Chapelizod Road near Islandbridge Gate). Many tour buses are routed through the park as well.
The LUAS will go as far as Heuston Station or Museum Station (actually the National Museum in Collins Barracks), both between five and ten minutes walk from the park.
You can also take a local train to Ashtown Station, again a few minutes walk away. Take note that the slightly misnamed "Phoenix Park" station is far less convenient!
If you are using your car you will have no problem getting to the park, though finding a convenient parking space may prove challenging on weekends.
Many guidebooks still show "opening times" for the Phoenix Park, apparently not aware that the iron gates in the south-eastern corner (Park Gate) were "temporarily removed" in 1932, to facilitate a major event - and then misplaced and never reinstalled.
Thus the park is open 24/7/365, all the time. Though areas of the park may nor be open to traffic at night, and some gates may close at dusk
When King Charles II needed hunting grounds near Dublin, the Duke of Ormonde landscaped the area north of the Liffey, stocking it with deer. To prevent these from escaping (and presumably also to discourage the Dublin rabble from poaching), the whole park was surrounded by a substantial wall.
In 1745 the park was presented to the City of Dublin - with the provision to make it accessible to the citizens.
Today, it is still surrounded by more than seven miles of solid stone walls, access is via the eight major gates and six smaller (pedestrian) gates (one is near the Hole in the Wall pub, Ireland's longest pub). And despite the toll both hunting and vehicle traffic took, around 500 deer are still roaming the extensive grounds.
Europe's largest urban park - five times the size of London's Hyde Park, double the size of New York's Central Park, 707 hectares in all. The extensive grounds are frequented by walkers, families on an outing, joggers, skaters, and cyclists - on summer weekends room on the paved ways may be scarce.
Yes and no - during daytime the park is very safe, the only risk being the car left in an area that will be locked by the wardens at dusk (check before leaving your car). After dark, the park should not be considered safe for pedestrians and cyclists alone on their own.
While the Phoenix Park should not be considered a hotbed of violent criminal activity when the sun is down, you might encounter strange or even dangerous people. And, to be honest, there have been some violent incidents.
There are several ways to recover your strength - apart from the restaurants in the zoo (which are only open to those who paid the entry fee).
Near the zoo's entrance, you will find the Phoenix Park Tea House, small but busy (and with erratic opening hours at times). Then there is the café in the Phoenix Park Visitor Centre. And an ice-cream van is usually parked near the Papal Cross.
Nearby (leave the park through Ashtown Gate) is the Halfway House. Another pub well worth a visit is "The Hole in the Wall", Ireland's longest pub and nestling along the park wall (a pedestrian gate is conveniently located next to the pub entrance).
Once the place of a stately mansion belonging to the Guinness family, now a park for every Dubliner to enjoy. A bit out of the way, but worth going!
On the northern shore of Dublin Bay, you'll pass it if you head from the city center to Howth.
Easiest by car, just head for Mount Prospect Avenue and park nearby. If using Dublin Bus is your plan, line 130 will get you to St. Anne's Park. The DART is not an ideal option with the nearest station (Killester) being about 25 minutes walk away.
All times - though the parking area beside the Red Stables will be closed for the night.
Originally St. Anne's Park was part of a large estate owned by the Guinness family. The was sold to the Dublin Corporation in 1936 by the childless Bishop Plunkett. The corporation used less than half the area for public housing and retained the more attractive grounds, redeveloped as public parkland. An inspired move.
Roses - well, if you come at the right time that is. The park is famed for its Rose Gardens. But even if the roses are not in bloom, visiting the park is an unexpected pleasure. Follies abound - recreated classical monuments or artificial ruins to please the eye. Even the boathouse next to the lake is based on a temple excavated in Pompeii. A house from Herculaneum is just a few minutes walk away, so are Roman tombs from Provence. You will get the feeling that you are walking in Poussin's Arcadia, with medieval ruins and ancient artefacts hidden in old woods.
Unfortunately, this Arcadia seems to be populated by a large number of budding artists, consuming even larger quantities of beer and cider - at least judging from the unsightly graffiti everywhere and the empty cans strewn around in the more secluded areas.
By the way - the mansion is long gone (the stables are te only buildings left), but in 1988 the Millennium Arboretum was created, celebrating 1,000 years of Dublin by planting 1,000 different trees.
Maybe - there is a charming playground with lots of carved wood substituting for plastic, a family-friendly picnic area is nearby and the kids can roam the sheer endless grounds. But if you plan to let them loose in the "romantic" areas (the woods and ruins) you should be aware that there are some natural dangers (steep hillsides, ponds) and fit them with a GPS-locator ... it looks to be near impossible to find a lost child!
Generally yes - but to be frank, I would avoid the more secluded areas in the evenings, and especially after dark.
Get a snack at the Red Stables Arts & Crafts Centre if you fancy. Or bring your own - though a number of pubs line the Clontarf Road nearby and may provide beverages and food to the traveller in need.
Ireland's least favourite monument, seldom used for its original purpose ... but a good place for a stroll.
The park is located at Islandbridge, just south of the Phoenix Park and adjacent to the Liffey. Or immediately north of Con Colbert Road (the busy N4).
Several bus lines pass through either Con Colbert Road or Chapelizod Road, the LUAS and rail station Heuston is around 15 minutes (uninspiring) walk away. You will have to tramp along the N4 and use the stairs into the park. By car, you should take the South Circular Road.
At all times.
This has to be the strangest history of them all - the War Memorial Gardens were planned by Sir Edwin Lutyens, immediately after the Great War, to remember the 49,000 Irish war dead. But the process of construction was overtaken by political events and the successive governments of the Free State and the Republic did not show any enthusiasm at all for the monument.
In many circles, the War Memorial Gardens were (and occasionally still are) seen as a glorification of the British Army. Which they are not - they just remind us of the efforts of Irishmen and -women in the war. The monument and park were thus only finished many decades after the First World War.
Most of the area is given over to landscaped lawns, with some buildings housing rowing clubs near the Liffey. The War Memorial Gardens themselves are nearly hidden away, despite its not inconsiderable size. Two crescents with tower-like buildings incorporated form the outer boundary of the monument. Central are an altar-like stone cube and a massive stone cross. The tone is sombre, the style almost classical - there are no heroic statues and almost no ornaments.
Generally yes, though I would not recommend a visit after dark.
You can eat and drink to your heart's delight - provided you packed a picnic! There are no shops or cafés in the immediate vicinity.
  Bull Island  
  Bull Island in a Nutshell:  
  Where Will I Find Bull Island?  
  How do I get to Bull Island?  
  When is Bull Island Open?  
  A Short History of the Nature Reserve:  
  What can I Expect on Bull Island?  
  Is Bull Island Secure?  
  Food and Drink on Bull Island:  
  Phoenix Park  
  Where Will I Find the Phoenix Park?  
  How do I get to the Phoenix Park?  
  When is the Phoenix Park Open?  
  A Short History of the Park:  
  What can I Expect in the Phoenix Park?  
  Main Attractions in the Phoenix Park:  
  Is the Phoenix Park Secure?  
  Food and Drink in the Phoenix Park:  
  St. Anne's Park and Rose Gardens  
  Saint Anne's Park in a Nutshell:  
  Where Will I Find St. Anne's Park?  
  How do I get to St. Anne's Park?  
  When is St. Anne's Park Open?  
  A Short History of the Park:  
  What can I Expect in St. Anne's Park?  
  An Ideal Family Park?  
  Is St. Anne's Park Secure?  
  Food and Drink in St. Anne's Park:  
  War Memorial Gardens at Islandbridge  
  The War Memorial Gardens in a Nutshell:  
  Where Will I Find the War Memorial Gardens?  
  How do I get to the War Memorial Gardens?  
  When are the War Memorial Gardens Open?  
  A Short History of the Park:  
  What can I Expect at the War Memorial Gardens?  
  Is the Park Secure?  
  Food and Drink in War Memorial Gardens:  
Aras an Uachtaráin - the residence of the Irish president, open for visitors on weekends;
Ashtown Castle and Phoenix Park Visitor Centre - a medieval tower house and an informative display on the Phoenix Park's history;
Dublin Zoo - host to all creatures great and small, from apes to zebras;
Farmleigh House - dubbed "the most expensive B&B in Ireland", the official guesthouse of the Republic;
Magazine Fort - a still imposing military installation where the first action of the Easter Rising took place;
Papal Cross - a massive steel cross erected to facilitate Pope John Paul II saying mass to millions;
Peoples Garden - a landscaped pleasure garden;
Phoenix Monument - a monument topped by a Phoenix (even though the phoenix did not give its name to the park ... it was just a convenient translation of the Irish fionn uisce , meaning "clear water");
Sports Grounds - offering glimpses of cricket and polo players;
Wellington Monument - one of the first monuments to the victor of Waterloo, born in Dublin.
Dublin's parks and gardens are often a shortcut during daylight hours, at night (when they are shut) a hindrance to navigate around. But they are also a blessing - if you need some quality time, a bit of a walk, some nature, some fresh air ... well, if you do not want to visit a park outside Dublin's city centre, here are some suggestions where to take a breather in central Dublin.
In strictly alphabetical order, follow me to the Archbishop Ryan Park in Merrion Square, the Blessington Street Basin, the Dubh Linn Gardens, the Garden of Remembrance, Iveagh Gardens, St. Audoen's Park, St. Patrick's Park, and (of course) St. Stephen's Green.
The Archbishop Ryan Park, often better (but wrongly) known as "Merrion Square", is the park to relax in if you have just visited stately Merrion Square and the Government Buildings. Or the National Gallery. Though the many works of art in the park itself will make you think it is an al fresco extension of the gallery.
The park is in the middle of Merrion Square and sometimes known simply under that name as well. It is right across the road from Leinster House, the Natural History Museum, and the National Gallery.
Many bus routes stop at or very near Merrion Square, as do most tour buses. The DART station Pearse Street is not too far away either.
Roughly during daylight hours - opening times vary, but the park should generally be open by 9 am. The park will be locked up in the evening, refer to the information boards next to the gates to avoid embarrassing situations.
Originally reserved exclusively for the residents of the Georgian Merrion Square (laid out in 1762), the park served as a refuge for famine victims in the 19th century. Later it came into the possession of the Catholic church, this was in the 1920s. The original plan of the Church for this prime piece of real estate ... was to build a cathedral on the grounds. But these (maybe too) ambitious plans never came to fruition, and in 1974 Archbishop Ryan presented the park to the City of Dublin.
The park is formal and laid out in a clear design - it is nearly impossible to get lost here. Contained within the park are a large number of monuments, from the chair dedicated to comedian Dermot Morgan ("Father Ted") to the multi-coloured statue of Oscar Wilde reclining on a rock (affectionately dubbed "The Fag on the Crag" by Dubliners).
One monument is not obvious and sometimes puzzling visitors: A raised area of grassland in the south-eastern corner is not an ancient burial site, a disused air-raid shelter is buried underneath it.
There is a children's playground in the north-western corner, otherwise the park seems to be the domain of urban white-collar workers taking a break. Take time to enjoy the Georgian houses on Merrion Square proper. And on weekends, stroll along the railings and admire the paintings offered for sale.
Generally yes - some (nearly always harmless) street-people may occasionally frequent the fringes and dense shrubbery.
There is none - but the streets around Merrion Square provide plenty of opportunity to grab a sandwich and coffee.
A quiet area in the middle of the metropolis, created around a disused water reservoir - worth seeking out if you are in the vicinity.
This small park is hidden away between Royal Canal Bank and Berkeley Street near the Mater Hospital.
The easiest way would be via Blessington Street, no real surprise here. Blessington Street branches off Berkeley Street, used by several bus lines. It also is an easy walk from O'Connell Street, if you know where you are going.
Generally during daylight hours - expect the park to be open by 9 am and check the noticeboard near the entrance for current closing times.
Originally this was a purely utilitarian amenity, built in 1810 - replenished with water from the Royal Canal, it was part of the Dublin water supply. In later years the basin was used exclusively to store water for the Jameson's Distillery, starting in 1868. Then Jameson's moved out of Dublin during the 1970s and the Blessington Street Basin fell into disuse and disrepair.
In recent years the council decided to dredge the basin (finding a veritable goldmine of shopping trolleys) and redevelop the area as a small park for the local population, opening it officially in 1994.
Not much - except sudden and unexpected peace and quiet, just a few minutes' walk away from Dublin's busiest streets. Pleasant walks around the old basin are the main attraction.
Generally yes - but local drug problems and a nearby methadone therapy centre may lead to the odd, very rare, and most of the time uneventful encounter with a disoriented person.
None - but several shops in nearby Berkeley Street can supply an instant "packed lunch".
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto 
A park not many people know about - hidden behind Dublin Castle, doubling as a helicopter landing site, and rarely visited in itself by tourists and locals alike. But popular with the lunchtime crowd from the surrounding offices.
Virtually hidden between Dublin Castle and the Chester Beatty Library, just south of Dame Street. Easiest access is from Dame Street through the castle grounds.
Many buses stop near Dublin Castle, as do most tour buses.
Daylight hours - but the area is occasionally closed to facilitate major events.
This is the original place of the dubh linn, the dark pool. Where you stroll around the gardens today, in ancient times the river Dodder made a pool before flowing into the Liffey. Here the Vikings decided to settle. The Dodder today is a memory and has long been confined to a subterranean canal (or sewer). Only recently developed into formal gardens, the area is now a multi-purpose part of the castle grounds.
Most visitors are taken in with the colourful and bold artworks scattered around the garden - ceramic tiles at the bird bath, a giant glass snake, the memorial to the 2003 Special Olympics, the memorial to police killed in the line of duty. Take your time to walk around and explore. you will then also discover the bust of campaigning (and murdered) journalist Veronica Guerin, immortalised by Cate Blanchett in the film "Veronica Guerin".
The central area of the gardens is surrounded by wooden benches, these used to sport a low-key Ogham design (Ogham being the ancient Irish system of writing) - though dring renovation work this charming detail was lost. Still intact, however, is another "Celtic" touch - the grassy middle part is interrupted by a knot design formed by paving stones. This is only really visible from the air (or from the roof garden of the Chester Beatty Library) - and actually is used as a helicopter landing pad on occasion.
Yes, a Garda station is right next to the park, casting a watchful eye over all the castle area.
The excellent Silk Road Café can be found in the Chester Beatty Library, just outside the gardens - otherwise bring your own from the numerous shops in Dame Street.
An oasis of peace and an opportunity for contemplation in the middle of Dublin's notoriously busy Northside - and a tribute to all those who fought and died for Irish freedom.
Directly in the middle of Parnell Square, north of the Rotunda Hospital and opposite the landmark Abbey Church.
Nearly all buses serving Dublin's Northside stop at Parnell Square, as do Bus Eireann coaches and most tour buses. Or you simply take a very short stroll from the top of O'Connell Street.
Roughly during office hours - the gardens and the massive statue of the Children of Lír are visible through the gates when the park is closed.
The gardens were planned and erected in the 1960s to commemorate all those who fought and dies for Irish freedom. This could be seen as the central memorial to the struggle for Irish independence. Some redevelopment in recent years has left the garden mainly intact.
The layout is very formal and dominated by man-made features, (tamed) nature providing some background only. Upon entering you will notice a water feature laid out in the form of a Latin cross, contained within a sunken portion of the gardens. Due to a tiled floor this has a certain swimming-pool-like appearance.
Part of the floor is given to a (repeated) design featuring "Celtic" weapons - alluding to the Celtic custom of throwing weapons (or representations of them) into streams and lakes as offerings.
At the head of the cross, a large bronze sculpture represents the Children of Lír, being magically converted into swans - an image taken straight from Irish mythology.
Yes, especially since there are no hidden nooks and crannies.
None - but there are literally dozens of cafés, pubs, and restaurants, as well as shops selling sandwiches and coffee in the area. Nearby Moore Street can provide Chinese food, Parnell Street East Korean cuisine.
 TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto
A truly hidden gem, and seldom discovered by tourist and local alike - quieter than other Dublin parks, even though the Iveagh Gardens are used for more and more events recently.
The Iveagh Gardens are well hidden right in the centre of Dublin - even locals do not know how to find them ... or are even aware of their existence. They are just south of St. Stephen's Green and the easiest access is via Harcourt Street and the short Clonmel Street. A small sign next to a gate indicates the way.
Being about three minutes walk away from St. Stephen's Green, they are well served by bus lines, the LUAS, and tour buses.
Daylight hours, see the signs on the gate for detailed information.
Originally a private park, the by now totally enclosed land was opened to the public only fairly recently. Well cared for, it sports some monumental fragments ... whose origins are virtually unknown.
A smallish, landscaped park in an enclosed area - made more interesting by some old trees, a sunken archery range, fountains, and the remnants of some monumental artworks. Greek (or possible Roman) gods lurk in the foliage.
None of this is truly spectacular, but the overall impression is very pleasing and the secluded nature makes the gardens ideal for a "breather". For some visitors the back of the Georgian buildings are an attraction of their own - spot multiple-level additions and typical period details.
Generally yes, though some people hanging around may seem to have an agenda of their own.
None is directly available, but the surrounding area is well served by cafés, shops, and restaurants.
A rarely visited park - though the park lies in plain view, the entrances are slightly hidden. A good place to take a rest after visiting the cathedrals.
It is north of High Street, west of historic St. Audoen's church.
Bus lines run past the park, get off the bus anywhere near Cornmarket. If you are using a hop-on-hop-off tour, Christ Church Cathedral would be the nearest stop. If you are coming on foot from the Liffey or the Four Courts (LUAS station), use Winetavern Street and Cook Street, entering the park through the old city gate.
Broadly speaking during daylight hours.
This basically was wasteland, created after the realigning of Dublin's main traffic arteries, thenredeveloped into a small park as a local amenity.
Lawns, benches, shrubbery - and the old city walls plus St. Audoen's church giving this area a certain medieval feeling. Until a passing truck reminds you of reality.
Well ... yes, but on several visits I encountered slightly disoriented persons that seemed to be under the influence of mind-altering substances. Try to avoid contact and do not get into discussions, even less arguments.
Several shops in the vicinity can provide sandwiches and coffee.
Just the place to take a breather after visiting St. Patrick's Cathedral. Because it is next to the massive edifice.
Just north of St. Patrick's Cathedral, it is the large, open space right beside the church.
Both bus lines and tour buses stop at or near St. Patrick's Cathedral regularly.
Generally during daylight hours.
Long part of the slums near the cathedral (the old "Liberties"), the grounds were redeveloped as parkland in the 19th and 20th century. Lord Iveagh had the slum housing torn down in 1897 and created a park, mainly to serve as an amenity for the social housing erected in the area. The park was taken over by the Dublin Corporation in the 1920s.
Mainly a space to rest and contemplate - nothing more, despite some artworks in the grounds. Take note of the "Liberty Bell" and the "Sentinel". Both echo the church connection, but are by and large unspectacular. Also found nearby is the "Literary Parade", a monument to Irish writers from Swift to Beckett. It still is a good way to enjoy a few minutes, with the cathedral on one side and the historic Iveagh Buildings on the other. Unfortunately also with massive traffic passing close by, making quiet contemplation quite a piece of work.
Yes.
Bring your own or buy coffee and sandwiches at local shops.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto 
The front lawn on which Dublin's office workers and clerks relax during lunch hour - and maybe the true centre of Dublin. No visit to Dublin would be complete without a stroll through it.
Right in the middle of Dublin, at the southern end of Grafton Street - just ask anybody for the way to "the Green".
Buses, tours and the LUAS stop at St. Stephen's Green, Pearse Street DART-station is about ten to fifteen minutes walk away.
Roughly during daylight hours - starting around 9 am at the latest. Locking up is undertaken according to a seasonal schedule, this is posted next to the entrance gates. Avoid being locked in, it can happen due to the many nooks and crannies of the park.
You wouldn't notice today, but "The Green" started off as a common, used to graze animals, to tuck away a leper colony, and to facilitate the odd public execution. Only in the latter half of the 17th century did houses go up around the area. Which led to the former common becoming private grounds, to be used by residents only. Mainly for parading in their Sunday best.
In 1880 Arthur Edward Guinness, later Lord Ardilaun, made the park accessible for the general public, creating a Victorian showpiece. In a less inspired move, the Irish Citizens Army decided that the park was a viable military objective during the Easter Rising.
A Victorian landscaped garden, made for promenading - lawns seemingly mown every five minutes, flower displays as formal as a Victorian reception, clean and level walkways to stroll on leidurely, and those delightful little buildings. Including a bandstand, a pavilion, a stone bridge and the mock-Tudor groundskeeper's lodge. Plus the grandiose Fusilier's Arch and the thoroughly modern Wolfe Tone memorial - called "Tonehenge" by Dubliners. Look and you'll understand.
Dotted around the park are countless memorials, including one to Countess Markiewicz (who occupied the Green with the Irish Citizens Army during the Easter Rising. Nearly hidden away is an installation in honour of William Butler Yeats, created by Henry Moore.
Yes - actually even more so if you are a duck ... fire was halted during the Easter Rising to facilitate the groundskeeper feeding the ducks.
There are plenty of eateries, cafés, and pubs in the vicinity, but most people grab a sandwich and a coffee for a lunch break in the Green.
  Dublin's Parks and Gardens - in a Central Location  
  Archbishop Ryan Park - Merrion Square  
  Archbishop Ryan Park in a Nutshell:  
  Where Do I Find Archbishop Ryan Park?  
  How do I get to Archbishop Ryan Park?  
  When is Archbishop Ryan Park Open?  
  A Short History of the Park:  
  What can I Expect in Archbishop Ryan Park?  
  Is Archbishop Ryan Park Secure?  
  Food and Drink in Archbishop Ryan Park:  
  Blessington Street Basin  
  The Blessington Street Basin in a Nutshell:  
  Where do I Find the Blessington Street Basin?  
  How do I get to Blessington Street Basin?  
  When is Blessington Street Basin Open?  
  A Short History of the Park:  
  What to Expect at the Blessington Street Basin?  
  Is this Park Secure?  
  Food and Drink at the Blessington Street Basin:  
  Dubh Linn Gardens at Dublin Castle  
  The Dubh Linn Gardens in a Nutshell:  
  Where Do I Find the Dubh Linn Gardens?  
  How Do I Get to the Dubh Linn Gardens?  
  What are the Opening Times for the Dubh Linn Gardens?  
  A Short History of the Park:  
  What to Expect at the Dubh Linn Gardens?  
  Are the Dubh Linn Gardens Secure?  
  Food and Drink in the Dubh Linn Gardens:  
  Garden of Remembrance in Parnell Square  
  The Garden of Remembrance in a Nutshell:  
  Where Will I Find the Garden of Remembrance?  
  How do I get to the Garden of Remembrance?  
  When is the Garden of Remembrance Open?  
  A Short History of the Park:  
  What can I Expect in the Garden of Remembrance?  
  Is the Garden of Remembrance Secure?  
  Food and Drink at the Garden of Remembrance:  
  Iveagh Gardens  
  Iveagh Gardens in a Nutshell:  
  Where Will I Find the Iveagh Gardens?  
  How Do I Get to the Iveagh Gardens?  
  When are the Iveagh Gardens Open?  
  A Short History of the Park:  
  What to Expect at the Iveagh Gardens?  
  Is the Park Secure?  
  Food and Drink in the Iveagh Gardens:  
  Saint Audoen's Park  
  Saint Audoen's Park in a Nutshell:  
  Where Will I Find St. Audoen's Park?  
  How do I get to St. Audoen's Park?  
  When is St. Audoen's Park Open?  
  A Short History of the Park:  
  What can I Expect in St. Audoen's Park?  
  Is the Park Secure?  
  Food and Drink in St. Audoen's Park:  
  Saint Patrick's Park  
  Saint Patrick's Park in a Nutshell:  
  Where Will I Find St. Patrick's Park?  
  How do I get to St. Patrick's Park?  
  When is St. Patrick's Park Open?  
  A Short History of the Park:  
  What can I Expect in St. Patrick's Park?  
  Is the Park Secure?  
  Food and Drink in St. Patrick's Park:  
  Saint Stephen's Green  
  Saint Stephen's Green in a Nutshell:  
  Where Will I Find St. Stephen's Green?  
  How do I get to St. Stephen's Green?  
  When is St. Stephen's Green Open?  
  A Short History of the Park:  
  What can I Expect in St. Stephen's Green?  
  Is the Park Secure?  
  Food and Drink in St. Stephen's Green:  
Walkable, human-scale Dublin, Ireland with its myriad attractions, is a wonderful city for romantics to visit.
Couples who love theater, music, art, and getting to know the residents of a special place will appreciate a stay in Dublin. Part of what makes the city so appealing are Dubliners' easy-going spirit of friendliness and good humor.
From its greensward in the center of the city to its Grafton Street shops to its historic treasures and tavern pleasures, Dublin attractions deserve a place on any well-traveled romantic couple's "must-visit" list.
One of the most efficient and affordable ways to experience Dublin's top visitor attractions is by purchasing a Dublin Pass, which allows for admission to more than 30 sites.
Search for a Dublin Hotel
 TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto
Trinity College, founded in 1592, is the oldest university in Ireland and a major Dublin attraction.
It is the repository of the Book of Kells, an ancient illuminated manuscript of the gospels labored over by Celtic monks, circa 800 A.D.
Note: There is an admission charge required to view the Book of Kells, which is on permanent display in the Old Library at Trinity College. 
Dublin visitors to Trinity College will find this active campus alive with students and a lovely place to take a stroll. It's 40 acres encompass green meadows, historic buildings, and streets paved with cobblestones.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto 
An urban park in the midst of the city, St. Stephen’s Green is a prime place to picnic, stroll, and people-watch.
The shady park contains an ornamental lake, benches, monuments and sculpture (including a piece by Henry Moore). There is also a garden dedicated to Irish poet W.B.Yeats, and throughout St. Stephen’s Green flowers bloom resplendently in spring and summer.
The Shelbourne Hotel is located on the north side of the Stephen’s Green. It's trendy No. 27 Bar and Lounge faces the park directly and also features paintings of the Dublin greensward.
Stephen's Green Shopping Center, which has about 100 shops and a food court, is across from Fusilier's Arch, the park's stately west side entrance.
 
Born in Dublin in 1854, Oscar Wilde attended Trinity College and went on to write The Picture of Dorian Gray and The Importance of Being Earnest, among many other satires that have become literary classics.
Wilde's childhood home was a stately Georgian structure located at 1 Merrion Square, close to St. Stephen's Green. It is open to the public to tour. The statue of Oscar Wilde is located in the northwest corner of the park across the street from Merrion Square. The statue's nickname, "The Fag on the Crag," is well known locally.
Persecuted for his flamboyant homosexuality and tweaking Victorian mores, Wilde was arrested for "gross indecency" relating to "the love that dares not speak its name." He was found guilty, sentenced to two years in jail, and imprisoned. After his release, he wrote the famous poem "The Ballad of Reading Gaol," based upon a hanging that he witnessed while incarcerated.
Find out more about Ireland's literary heritage by visiting the Dublin Writers' Museum.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto
The Guinness Brewery has stood in Dublin since 1670 and is one of Ireland's top attractions.
It's St. James's Gate, constructed in 1759, marks the entry to the plant, which has grown to 64 acres.
Today the Guinness Brewery consists of a Roasthouse, a Brewhouse, the Fermentation and Beer Processing Plant, and the Market Street Storehouse. The first four all play important parts in the production of Guinness beer, one of Ireland's proudest exports.
The Storehouse, a restored 1904 structure redesigned to resemble an oversized pint glass, is the official visitor center of the Guinness Brewery.
The Storehouse stands seven stories high (making it one of Dublin's tallest buildings) and offers visitors an overview of the beer-making process, a tasting laboratory, and interactive exhibit. It also contains a shop, two restaurants, and three bars.
At the top-floor, glass-enclosed Gravity Bar in the Guinness Brewery, visitors can savor a complimentary pint along with a panoramic view of the city.
Named for its shape, the Horseshoe Bar in the, which earned a mention in James Joyce’s Ulysses, is the spot where Irish pols have debated issues for generations.
It has long been one of Dublin’s most popular bars, and even teetotalers ought to peek in to see this touchstone of Irish history.
 
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto 
The National Gallery of Ireland in Dublin is home to the country's Irish and European art collections dating from the 14th to the 20th centuries. Admission is free.
Playwright George Bernard Shaw, who spent much of his childhood immersed in the collections, left one-third of his royalties to the National Gallery. The Pygmalion author’s gratitude enabled it to acquire outstanding paintings and sculptures from the past two centuries, including a full-size statue of the benefactor.
Visitors who enjoy viewing modern art can do so at the Irish Museum of Modern Art, ironically located inside a 17th-century structure.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto 
Dublin's Temple Bar area is a district — rather than a singular drinking establishment — where adults gather for entertainment and edification.
The area is home to several cultural institutions, numerous art galleries, stores (including an Amnesty International Fair Trade Shop), restaurants, and places to sleep. Mostly, though, Temple Bar comes alive at night.
A traditional Irish pub, Oliver St. John Gogarty (its painted wall is pictured above) is the place to hear live Irish music. Gogarty's also includes a restaurant and inexpensive accommodations.
Dublin's oldest building, the medieval Christ Church Cathedral is a popular stop for visitors to Dublin, especially Catholic ones. It is home to the archbishop of Dublin.
Christ Church Cathedral was originally constructed in 1038 and was renovated in the Victorian era.
It's working bells, soaring nave, stained-glass windows, and other architectural details are a treat to behold.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto
Pedestrian-only Ha'penny Bridge is one of the several bridges that cross the River Liffey in Dublin.
Although it has gone by different names since it was originally built in 1816 (Wellington Bridge, Liffey Bridge, and Penny Ha'penny Bridge among them), the one it's best known by coming from the toll amount that was once charged to cross it.
Connecting the north and south sides of Dublin, Ha'penny Bridge is steps from the Temple Bar area. Lit at night, it's a fine place for a romantic stroll to end a memorable day in Dublin.
If you have extra time in Dublin, consider visiting:
Find out more: Official Tourism Ireland Web Site
  Trinity College in Dublin, Ireland  
  St. Stephen’s Green in Dublin, Ireland  
  Oscar Wilde Statue in Dublin, Ireland  
  Guinness Brewery in Dublin  
  Horseshoe Bar at The Shelbourne  
  National Gallery of Ireland  
  Temple Bar Area  
  Christ Church Cathedral in Dublin  
  Dublin's Ha'penny Bridge  
Abbey Theatre - Ireland's national theater
Croke Park - stadium where the national sports of hurling and Gaelic football are played
Dublin Zoo - founded in 1830 and transformed into a modern zoo.
