Dubrovnik - Pearl of the Adriatic
Dubrovnik, Croatia is becoming one of the cruise lines' favorite ports of call in the eastern Mediterranean, with over 600 "cruise ship days" annually. That's almost two ships per day visiting Dubrovnik! The fascinating city, filled with history, has recovered well from the war of the early 1990s. Old Town Dubrovnik is a marvelous medieval walled city, filled with outdoor cafes, bars, and restaurants. Dubrovnik's location on the Dalmatian coast of southern Croatia is picture-perfect. "Walking the wall" in Dubrovnik is a great way to see the city, and most of these pictures were made from our walking tour on the wall or on the polished marble streets below. Join me for a day exploring Dubrovnik.
The Bokar Fortress marks the southwest corner of the old city of Dubrovnik.
The Bokar Fortress was originally designed to protect the entrance to Dubrovnik's harbor. However, by the time it was completed in the late 16th century, the harbor had been moved to the other side of the peninsula. The Bokar Fortress also served as a prison.
Dubrovnik's Lovrijenac Fortress is located across the harbor from the Bokar Fortress.
Like the Bokar Fortress, the Lovrijenac Fortress dates back to the 16th century. Today, the Lovrijenac Fortress is used for Dubrovnik's summer festival and for Shakespeare productions. Can't you just imagine how amazing Hamlet would be in this setting? Our guide also told us it could be rented for weddings and special events.
Walking around old town Dubrovnik atop the ancient wall surrounding the city is a popular way to get a fantastic look at Dubrovnik. It costs 50 kuna (about $8 in May 2006) to climb the steep stairs to the top of the wall and to walk the 2 kilometers around the city. We spent over 2 hours on the wall, but stopped to take many pictures and rest occassionally. The wall has many stairs and the walk can be strenuous, but my 80-year old mother survived the climb and thought the view was worth it!
Construction on these two fortresses was started in the 15th century, and they were designed to guard the Dubrovnik harbor. However, by the time they were completed in the 16th century, Dubrovnik's harbor had moved to the other side of town.
Today, Dubrovnik is clean and welcoming to tourists. Just 15 years ago, it was bombarded for months by the Yugoslav army.
Over 70 percent of the buildings in Dubrovnik were damaged during the siege of Dubrovnik by the Yugoslav army from October 1991 to August 1992. Today, you have to look hard to see any the remnants of the war.
This picture demonstrates how steep the wall surrounding Dubrovnik can be!
When walking the wall in Dubrovnik, be on the lookout for sights such as this one. I'm not sure I would want my dainties hanging outside for the world to see!
Neopolitan engineer Onofrio designed this fountain and the 8 km aqeduct that supplies its water in 1444.
Stradun is the main street in old town Dubrovnik. It is paved in marble and can be quite slipperly when wet.
Although Stradun, the main street of old town Dubrovnik, can be very busy, the town has many narrow, quiet back streets.
