Scotland's capital may seem like a small city but when it comes to things to do in Edinburgh visitors are spoiled for choice. And whether you think of it as "The Athens of the North" or "Auld Reekie" (two of the many nicknames for the Scottish capital), a visit to this beautiful city is bound to leave a lasting impression.
Cradled by seven hills (more actually, but some are so covered with buildings they are hard to spot), Edinburgh life is sophisticated, youthful, lively, and very entertaining. It's crammed with history and historic monuments, shopping, art, and amazing festivals. These are 20 favorite things to do on a visit. Whether it's the first time or the 50th, you'll never be bored in Edinburgh.
Edinburgh reels from one fabulous festival to another. It doesn't matter when you go; you are bound to find a party. But during August the city goes all out with two fabulous multi-arts festivals, super duper fireworks and the world's most celebrated military spectacle.
The biggie is the Edinburgh Fringe, the world's largest performing arts festival. It takes over the city for at least three weeks in August — with drama, comedy, dance, music, cabaret, puppetry and kids shows — briefly doubling the city's population and making it the second largest in the UK. Alongside it, there's the Edinburgh International Festival, a curated event featuring the world's top theater companies, orchestras and soloists — including, in 2019, rappers, performance poets and pop icons.
And while all that is going on (as well as book festivals and food festivals too) the Royal Edinburgh Military Tattoo is thrilling crowds on the hill beneath the castle with colorful displays of marching bands, massed pipers and Hjaltibonhogo, the remarkable dancing Shetland fiddlers.
It all finishes in one of the biggest fireworks concerts in the world with 100,000 fireworks set off around Edinburgh Castle to the strains of the Scottish Chamber Orchestra.
Don't worry if you can't make it for the August festivals. Several ancient Celtic festivals have, in the 21st century, become colorful public spectacles with costumed participants and loads of ritual fire demonstrations. Since the millennium, the revival of Beltane welcomes the summer on Edinburgh's Calton Hill. Climb the hill on April 30 to join the Green Man and newly awakened May Queen for a fiery pre-Christian blow-out that welcomes the summer. This is a ticketed event — and it may not be family friendly. Afterall, Beltane is a fertility festival — the only one of the four Celtic quarter days that has resisted becoming Christianized (the others becoming All Hallows, Christmas and Easter). Some of the performers wear very little clothing and the celebrations can become somewhat uninhibited.
At the end of December, Edinburgh's streets and parks fill with revelers for Hogmanay. This Scottish version of New Year's Eve is a three or four day party that includes a huge, family-friendly torchlight parade, indoor and outdoor concerts all over the place, amazing fireworks and the Loony Dook — a freezing cold dip in the sea on New Year's Day. The planning goes on for most of the year and Hogmanay is actually a much bigger celebration than Christmas — with more days off work for the locals to nurse their hangovers. Keep up with the events and the concert line-ups on the official Edinburgh Hogmanay website.
Between 1954 and 1997, when the Queen and senior members of the royal family made state visits around the world, they traveled on the Royal Yacht Britannia, a magnificent ocean-going vessel that's more like a small cruise ship than a yacht. The ship was used on trade missions and was permanently moored at Leith in 1997.
Today the Royal Yacht Britannia is one of Scotland's top visitor attractions, with hundreds of thousands going aboard every year. Visitors can tour the yacht's five main decks and see the state apartments including the Queen's bedroom; shielded behind glass, it is the only bedroom of a living monarch that can be viewed by the public. 
One of the interesting things about Britannia is that the Queen herself took charge of the interior decoration of the family quarters. The traditionally furnished sitting room looks just like a slightly larger version of a living room in a middle class American home.
The visit includes a look at the crew quarters as well as life below decks in the sick bay and laundry. Britannia was crewed by volunteers from the Royal Navy and, when the Queen was aboard, a contingent of Royal Marines. You can also have a very posh tea in the Royal Deck Tea Room.
And except for July and August, you can also see the Royal Racing Yacht Bloodhound — where Prince Charles and Princess Anne learned to sail as children.
Edinburgh Castle, at the top of the city's "Royal Mile", looms over cityscape atop an outcrop of volcanic rock (most of Edinburgh's hills are the plugs of extinct volcanoes).
The views over Edinburgh are just spectacular but the castle's treasures are worth exploring. It houses the Scottish Crown Jewels — known as the Honours of Scotland — a crown, sceptre and sword. The story of how they were found, hidden in a chest, with clues discovered by author Sir Walter Scott makes seeing them a real even more interesting.
And, since 1996, the Stone of Destiny — also known as the Stone of Scone. Since ancient times, this was the symbol of the Scottish monarchy, used in the coronation of Scottish kings. But in 1296 it was stolen by King Edward I and placed in his throne. It has been part of the coronation chair of British monarchs ever since. It was returned to Scotland in 1996 but — if Scotland is still part of the UK when the next King is crowned, it will be brought to Westminster Abbey for the ceremony.
The castle's Great Hall is where Mary Queen of Scots gave birth to King James VI of Scotland (later James I of England). And St Margaret's Chapel within the castle walls, built by King David I in 1130 to honor his mother, is the oldest building in Edinburgh and still used for christenings and weddings.
Unless you happen to be staying in Edinburgh's Old Town, it's a steep, but pretty, climb through the Princes Street Gardens to the castle. Dress warmly, no matter what time of year, because it's always windy and cold up there. And wear comfortable, sturdy shoes. 
 Mike Boyland / Getty Images
At the bottom of the Royal Mile, the Palace of Holyroodhouse was once the home of the Kings and Queens of Scotland — including Mary Queen of Scots. It's still the British monarch's official residence in Scotland (as opposed to Balmoral, which is her private country estate) and she entertains official guests there for a short period every year.
Holyrood Palace is still a working government building, much of it dating from the 17th and 18th centuries. But within its grounds you can also see the private apartments of Mary Queen of Scots and the 16th century tower. It was here that Mary's jealous husband Lord Darnley burst in on her,dragged off her private secretary David Rizzio, and stabbed him 56 times.
Besides the dramatic story of the murder, Holyrood House is the place to explore the history of Scottish royalty. Next to the palace, the Queen's Gallery, hosts changing exhibits from the Royal Collection.
When The Scottish Parliament building was first proposed in the 1990s, it was estimated to cost 10 million pounds. By the time it was opened by the Queen in 2004 it had cost a whopping 414 million pounds. Whether it was worth it is up to the Scots to decide, but as a visitor you'll find the building, designed by Spanish architect Enric Miralles, breathtaking.
Visiting the public areas of the Scottish Parliament is free. And if you happen to arrive when Parliament is in session, you can watch from the visitors' gallery. Don't miss the astonishing, high tech debating chamber.
A variety of free tours about Scotland's contribution to science, art, architecture, literature and politics can be booked online before you go. It's worth joining one of the frequent, hour-long tours of the building itself to learn more about its craftsmanship, functions, symbolism and architecture. There's also a family-friendly cafe and a well stocked gift shop.
How many cities do you know that have a mountain right in the center of town? Well, okay, maybe there's Rio de Janeiro. But Corcovado and Sugar Loaf are on the outskirts of the city. Edinburgh actually wraps itself right around Arthur's Seat. And it's an extinct volcano.
Climbing Arthur's Seat is a popular pastime with locals and visitors alike and there are a range of paths leading to the summit. They vary from a longish Sunday stroll with a bit of rock scrambling at the top (families with children and grannies do it in good weather), to the more challenging quarry climb — not a route for beginners. You can, of course, take the easy way by driving up Queen's Drive to the parking at Dunsapie Loch. From there it's an easy – but steep — 15 minute walk to the summit. Whichever route you choose, it's worth the effort because the views from the summit, all the way to the Firth of Forth, are spectacular. 
Image Source / Getty Images
Rainy days are made for museums and galleries. And in Edinburgh, you don't have to wait long for weather to change to its gallery-going best. Luckily, Edinburgh has loads of art museums and some of them are real crackers.
The three national art galleries are centrally located, eye-poppingly good and all free.
Ben Mason / Flickr / CC BY-NC 2.0 
Art not your thing? There are still marvels to see in Edinburgh's museums. At the National Museum of Scotland you can explore exhibits and collections covering millennia of Scottish and world history as well as nature, art, design, fashion, science and technology. And families will enjoy Dynamic Earth, at the bottom of the Royal Mile near the Scottish Parliament building. It's an interactive and immersive experience full of films and special effects, covering volcanoes, oceans, the Ice Age, the age of dinosaurs, space exploration and more. It's a sort of earth science and biology lesson with bells on.
Edinburgh is a great city for shophounds. Besides the usual major department stores (Harvey Nichols, Debenhams, Marks and Spencer and Jenners — one of the oldest department stores in Britain) there are pockets of independent and quirky boutiques all over the place. 
Try St. Stephen Street in Stockbridge for quirky vintage shops. Victoria Street is a colorful, cobbled curve that runs down from Bank Street in the Old Town toward Grassmarket (and more shops including Mr. Wood's Fossils). It's a rainbow of brightly painted shops, stocking anything from indie fashion designers to whisky sellers and antiques dealers. Rose Street, north of Princes Street in the Georgian New Town is another place to look for pockets of style. If you love cheese, look for branches of I. J. Mellis. They have a shop in Victoria Street, another in Stockbridge and more branches around town. Go in the morning and they might even have warm bagels to go with your cheese.
You might think that Edinburgh's Camera Obscura (beside the castle) with its light shows, optical illusions and magic tricks, is a modern attraction, but you'd be wrong. This arrangement of lenses and periscopes in the attic of a Victorian tower in the Old Town has been around, in one form or another, for about 150 years — and it's actually rather good fun.
Created in the 19th century, the camera obscura was owned by various amateur scientists and social improvers; one owner, Patrick Geddes, a town planner and sociologist, wanted to improve people's outlook on life by showing them all of Edinburgh in miniature. From the 1940s to 1982 it was owned by Edinburgh University. More recently, it's been run by a tourism publisher and attraction operator. And "The World of Illusion" has been added.
If you've ever made a pinhole camera out of a shoe box and watched an upside down world in miniature play out on the back of the box, you've made a camera obscura — only Edinburgh's Camera Obscura fills several stories of a building and the resulting image is projected onto a curved white table, 21 feet in diameter.
Guides take you through the experience of watching the city go about its daily activities (looking like a film but actually a projected reflection). Some of the optical illusions that can be achieved are astonishing. With guidance you can, for example, pick up a tiny moving pedestrian in the palm of your hand.
They've added quite a few other optical attractions arranged over six floors. You can spend about two-hours taking it all in. Go early on rainy days when it is most popular.
Lonely Planet / Getty Images
The Royal Mile, running downhill from the Castle to Holyrood Palace, sits on a rocky spine. Very narrow streets and lanes (called closes and wynds), where the poor and working poor of Edinburgh lived, lined that rocky spine. The streets were noxious and unhealthy, filled with tall, narrow tenements and centers of plague and disease. Over time most of them were demolished or simply built over, but some remain as the closes and vaults of haunted Edinburgh.
Instead of fully demolishing this 17th century close, the Edinburgh city fathers left parts of it as the foundations of the Royal Exchange (now the City Chambers and home of Edinburgh City Council). Remarkably, people continued living in these underground tenements, sealed off from the sky, as late as 1902 when the last resident was forced out.
Today The Real Mary King's Close is a commercial visitor attraction, complete with costumed guides telling about life for the residents — before the close was sealed off, and after — as well as ghoulish tales of murders and hauntings. Despite its commercialization, the whole idea of the place is fascinating and unique to Edinburgh. It's definitely worth a visit if you don't mind steps and don't get claustrophobic. 
The Edinburgh Vaults are a series of chambers within 19 arches under the city's South Bridge. For a short period in the 18th century they were used by tradesmen for storage, for taverns, barbershops and other businesses. But their biggest claim to fame, especially for tourists of the ghoulish, was as the place where early 19th century grave robbers and serial killers Burke and Hare stored the bodies they sold to an Edinburgh University medical professor for his anatomy lectures. Fittingly, after his conviction and hanging, Burke was used for anatomy lessons himself. And if you are truly ghoulish, you can see his skeleton at the Anatomical Museum of the University of Edinburgh where it is still displayed.
The vaults can only be visited on guided tours led by Mercat Tours who have exclusive access.
Karl Blackwell / Lonely Planet Images /Getty Images
Edinburgh's medieval attractions are justly famous, but a completely different experience awaits visitors to the National Trust for Scotland's Georgian house in Edinburgh New Town's Charlotte Square.
The house, designed by Scottish architect Robert Adam, has been restored to the condition it might have been when the first owner bought it in 1796 for 1,800 pounds (more than 200,000 pounds today but still, in British terms, a rather reasonable price for this grand house). See artworks, furniture, silver that would have belonged to the Lamonts. an upper middle class family of the period. The kitchen and servants rooms below stairs show the hardship that paid for the genteel upstairs lifestyle.
 kDamo / Flickr / CC BY-NC 2.0
Edinburgh is home to one of the UK's top universities and, like most university towns, you can count on great pubs and a lively music scene. The best way to tune in to what's on when you're visiting is to check out the online entertainment listings in the local newspaper, the Scotsman, or the Edinburgh pages of the popular British entertainment magazine, The List.
It's always worth seeing what's on at Henry's Cellar Bar, one of the city's longest running, independent live music venues. It's a tiny club on Morrison Street and music there is certainly varied — rock, punk, garage, indie, electro, blues, alternative, country, hip hop, folk, hardcore and what Henry's calls "krautrock" — and, oh yes, jazz too. The Jam House, on Queen Street, attracts a slightly more grown-up crowd (over 21). The dress code is what the British call "smart casual". You can dine and drink as well as enjoy timeless jazz, rock and blues curated in a style established by founder TV presenter and pianist Jools Holland.
 Edinburgh Blog / Flickr / CC BY 2.0
Edinburgh is about comedy. If you've ever considered going to the Edinburgh Fringe, you've probably noticed that comedy plays an over-sized role in the schedule. The Stand Comedy Club, one of the big producing venues for the festival, keeps up the comedy scene in Edinburgh year round. Top touring acts and local comedy talent keep this basement comedy club buzzing on York Place right next to the Scottish National Portrait Gallery.
No trip to Edinburgh would be complete without learning a bit more about Scotland's amber nectar, Scotch whisky. Don't bother with the whisky themed tourist traps at the top of the Royal Mile — there are many better whisky bars where you can imbibe and learn. Here are some of our favorites:
Jen Grantham / Getty Images
The true story of Greyfriars Bobby inspired one of the most unashamedly sentimental classic British movies ever made, "Greyfriars Bobby: The True Story of a Dog." Bobby, a faithful Skye terrier, pined at his master's grave, in Greyfriars Kirkyard, for 14 years until his own death. Locals fed him and the Lord Provost of Edinburgh paid for his license. After his death in 1872, the Lord Provost's daughter commissioned the statue of him that still stands today near Greyfriars Kirk.
Handily, the statue is right outside a family and dog-friendly pub, Greyfriars Bobby's Bar on Candlemakers Row.
De Agostini / W.Buss / Getty Images
It's hard to imagine the words "tenement" and "luxury" going together in the same building but, when it was built, in 1550, that's exactly what this narrow, six-storey building on the Royal Mile was.One of the oldest buildings in Edinburgh, it had become derelict and scheduled for demoltion when the National Trust for Scotland acquired it in 1934 and began restoration. What they uncovered were the remains of the luxurious interiors created for merchant Thomas Gladstone between 1617 and 1620. These included unusual Scottish Renaissance painted ceilings and hand painted interiors.
Not only did Gladstone decorate the house for himself, but he also created separate apartments rented out to various wealthy tenants including the minister of a nearby church and a high-end grocer who occupied a ground floor shop. Today a museum on the first two floors offers a glimpse of what daily life was like for people from different social classes in 17th century Edinburgh Old Town.
 Vittoriano Rastelli / Getty Images
Edinburgh's Museum of Childhood is the world's oldest museum completely devoted to childhood. Founded in 1955 by a city councillor who was an avid collector of toys himself, the museum's recently refurbished and redesigned galleries are filled with toys, games, clothing, school uniforms, kids club regalia and all sorts of paraphernalia related to being a child and growing up from the late 18th century through to modern times. Among the highlights are a rare wooden Queen Anne fashion doll dating about 1740 and a Kindertransport teddy bear — a tiny Steiff teddy that traveled on the last Kindertransport train that rescued Jewish children from Nazi Germany in 1939. The museum, on the Royal Mile, is free and is so popular with families that people say it is the noisiest museum in Scotland.
The proliferation of Edinburgh Fringe online reviews and listings can help you sort out the biggest daily challenge of the festival - simply deciding what to see. Every day throws up hundreds - even thousands - of choices. Some will be dreadful, most will be very entertaining, and there is always the once-in-a-lifetime chance to see a star being born.
Every experienced festival-goer has his or her own Fringe Festival strategy. But, if you are wired up in Edinburgh, a new way to stay on top of festival developments is to follow the excellent online reviews and listings websites now providing daily Edinburgh Festival coverage.
Follow some or all of these to see who's  tweeting what about the festivals:
Now in its 69th year, it will launch August 5 with the promise that, until the final curtain falls on August 29, "Here anything goes, anything can happen." The 2016 program boldly declares that the festival, which actually doubles the population of Edinburgh in August, has been "defying the norm since 1947."
So what's it all about and what can you expect? Here are a few facts to put you in the picture.
In 1947, the Edinburgh International Festival was organized to perk up post war Britain. The Fringe Festival began along side it, as an informal opportunity for less established and more off beat artists. In those days, it was known as the Edinburgh Festival Fringe.
Nowadays, it's the Edinburgh Fringe Festival and there is plenty in that subtle rearrangement of words. The Edinburgh International Festival continues to host important theatre, music and dance companies from around the world and is a very prestigious affair. But when it comes to an arts party to beat the band, the Fringe Festival is the whole enchilada.
That's a pretty big claim but the Edinburgh Fringe Festival has the amazing facts to back it up. Here are a few:
So, pretty big then? Well, every year the Edinburgh Fringe gets bigger and, as usual, each year produces the biggest arts festival in the world, ever.
Performances range from stand up comedy, revivals of classic plays, one person performances to wildly avant gard, in-your-face productions in places like - believe it or not - a public toilet and a moving, double decker bus.
Though every year is unique, the art forms scheduled for the festival in 2016 can give you an idea:
 
The Edinburgh Fringe Festival has something for everyone. There is plenty of entertaining street theatre, parades to thrill kids of all ages and lots for children to gawk at, photograph and enjoy. And there are numbers of shows, puppet shows, workshops and musical events for kids. One proviso though - Edinburgh is crowded during Festival season so children should be old enough to cope with crowds or young enough not to notice.
 
Edinburgh's Royal Mile slopes down from Edinburgh Castle on Castle Rock to the Palace of Holyrood House in the shadow of the mountains of Holyrood Park. Along the way, the route follows the eastern ridge of an extinct volcano - one of several in Scotland's capital.
The Royal Mile walk is one of those must-do experiences. Most people walk down it, from the castle to the palace, taking in the sights and architecture of the city's Old Town. However, you can buck the trend and walk up the Royal Mile. Here's why:
One of the best views of Edinburgh is from the top of Calton Hill looking south towards Arthur's Seat and the Salisbury Crags. Edinburgh really is a city with mountains right in the middle.
But you don't have to go all the way to the top of Calton Hill to enjoy the view. It's just as beautiful from Regent Road at the base of the hill and the start of this walk.
Getting there - If you'd rather skip this part of the walk, you can take a bus to the bottom of the Royal Mile. Lothian Buses 6 and 35 stop near Holyrood and the Scottish Parliament.
The Palace of Holyrood House is the Queen's official residence when she is in Scotland. (Different from her retreat at Balmoral which is her private property). It dates from a 12th-century Augustinian abbey founded by King David I of Scotland in 1128.
Parts of the Abbey still stand and can be visited during the summer. The palace itself has been built and rebuilt several times so it is a mixture of architectural styles. Because it is a working palace, very little of it is actually open to the public but what's there is fascinating.
The palace is also surrounded by gardens that can be visited.
If you're traveling with children old enough to complain but young enough to be bored by royal palaces, consider the Dynamic Earth attraction as an alternative attraction at the bottom of the Royal Mile.
The Scottish Parliament is both the dramatic contemporary building that houses the Parliament of the Scottish government and the body of its members, known as MSPs - Members of the Scottish Parliament. It was opened by the Queen in 2004.
From the moment it was proposed, in the 1990s, until its completion and beyond, the building designed by Spanish architect Enric Miralles, was controversial. The estimate of its cost, originally proposed at £10 million ($12 million), quickly escalated to £40 million ($46 million). By the time it was finished, it had cost £414 million ($506 million).
Visiting the public areas of the Scottish Parliament is free. Don't miss the breathtaking, high tech debating chamber. A variety of free tours about Scotland's contribution to science, art, architecture, literature, and politics are available and can be booked online. It's worth joining one of the frequent, hour-long tours of the building itself to learn more about its craftsmanship, functions, symbolism, and architecture. If Parliament is in session, you can watch from the visitor's gallery.
The Parliament building is open Monday to Saturday and public holidays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. When Parliament is conducting business, Tuesdays, Wednesday and Thursdays, the building is open from 9 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.
Before moving on take a breather here. The building has comfortable, well-maintained restrooms. A family-friendly cafe sells inexpensive snacks and drinks from 11:30 to 2:30.
Dynamic Earth is one of Edinburgh's most popular modern attractions. For families with school-age children, it's an alternative to the Palace of Holyrood House. Admission charges are similar to standard tickets for the palace.
It tells the story of planet Earth from the Big Bang onward. Fans of earth science, dinosaurs, underwater, jungle and space adventures will enjoy the break from history, politics, and hiking to have some fun.
Visitors experience interactive, multi-media and "4-D" features as they travel through time, space and climate zones. Short, family films are shown in the Show Dome, Scotland's only 360 ͦ, digital theater.
A visit should take about an hour and a half.
The attraction is southwest of the Scottish Parliament. Turn right at the exit from the Parliament building and follow the building around toward the right. After the reflecting pool, (on your left), look for the path around the grassy strip on the right. At that point, you should see a passage through to Dynamic Earth.
Now start your walk up The Royal Mile. Return to the traffic circle near the entrance of the Scottish Parliament, on Horse Wynd. On the side of a building near this, you will see a street sign for Canongate. That is the start of the Royal Mile. Turn left.
What's your hurry. If you stroll up the Royal Mile instead of marching up you'll be able to spot the genuine treasures amongst all the souvenir shops and tourist tat. Look for the strange street names on the closes - narrow pedestrian streets sometimes with steep staircases - that open out from the high street. They usually indicate the markets and trades that took place in those areas hundreds of years ago. From bottom to top, these are some of the highlights I found before lunch (you will no doubt find your own):
Wherever you find lots of tourists, you find touristy pubs and restaurants. So, what a pleasant surprise to find The Inn on the Mile when hunger pangs struck at the same time as the One o'clock gun.  Formerly a bank it's now a pub and nine-room, mid-priced boutique hotel. And it's hard to miss. It sits on an "island" on the High Street section of the Royal Mile, between wee Niddy Street and South Bridge Street, with impressive neoclassical columns and granite steps sweeping down to the road.
The former banking hall, with its large windows, high ceilings, and original features, is now the pub and dining room. It's relaxed and friendly with an inexpensive menu of well prepared casual food - soups, burgers, sandwiches, salads, chicken, steak, mac and cheese, and a kids menu for smaller appetites. 
I was staying elsewhere so I only I looked at the rooms, with their luxury bathrooms, free wifi, free minibars and huge windows over the Royal Mile or the bridges. It's definitely on my list for my next Edinburgh visit.
After lunch, continue up the Royal Mile past St. Giles Cathedral and turn left on George IV Bridge Street for a detour and a change of pace. Turn right on Victoria Street and follow the curving street down the hill, exploring its colorful shops along the way. Stop at La Barantine, 89 Victoria, to pick up some rainbow-colored macarons for later.
Further down it turns into West Bow. At the first intersection, turn right on Grassmarket. This street is known for its restaurants, bars, and independent boutiques. There's a street market here every Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
The true story of Greyfriars Bobby inspired a classic movie, one of the most unashamedly sentimental British movies ever made. The faithful Skye terrier pined at his master's grave, in Greyfriars Kirkyard, for 14 years until his own death. Locals fed him and the Lord Provost of Edinburgh paid for his license. After his death in 1872, the Lord Provost's daughter commissioned the statue of him that still stands today near Greyfriars Kirk.
To Get There - Retrace your steps up Grassmarket past the small monument at the bottom of West Bow. Bear right onto Cowgatehead and at the traffic circle continue right onto Candlemakers Row. The statue is outside the family and dog-friendly Greyfriars Pub near the intersection with George IV Bridge Road. It's a distance of a couple of hundred yards.
I'm afraid it is. Enjoy Edinburgh Castle from the outside. Marvel at the impressive views of it from vantage points around the city center. But don't waste your money going inside.
I know that may seem a controversial point of view but it is based on two visits, the second more disappointing than the first.
Yes, there are fabulous views, but you can find views just as good, or better, from Calton Hilland Arthur's Seat - and they are free.
Yes, it has the Scottish crown jewels, known as the Honours of Scotland, and the Stone of Destiny (formerly known as the Stone of Scone) on which the Scottish kings were crowned, but:
And yes, it has Mons Meg - a huge and ancient bombard canon; the Royal Palace where Mary Queen of Scots gave birth to James VI of Scotland, later James I of England; a great hall with an impressive hammerbean roof; a war museum and regimental museums with lots of medals.
But it is very disjointed. It's crowded during vacation seasons and basically, there is very little to see. It is simply far too expensive for what it offers.
Visit the National Museum of Scotland instead. It covers Scottish history, archaeology, and natural history and its many fascinating and often mysterious objects are yours to visit for free. The museum is just across the street from the little bronze statue of Greyfriars Bobby. So if you've taken that detour, stay a while longer to visit it. Use the time you'll save not wandering around Edinburgh Castle wondering why you've spent so much money to visit it.
The good news is, it's all downhill from here and there's probably a nice cup of tea at the bottom.
At the top of Castle Hill, a large paved area that looks like an empty parking lot forms a sort of prelude to the castle itself. This is known as the Esplanade and is where the Royal Edinburgh Military Tattoo is staged.
Just inside the Esplanade, at the far end, opposite the castle entrance, turn right and head for the corner of the enclosure. A cream colored, multi-story building with tan trim around its windows is the last building on the right before a wooded path that leads downward.
Go through the opening in the wrought iron fence and down a few steps. Then follow the path downward, through the trees and parkland. The path is steep in places but is paved throughout and not very difficult. It will lead you to the garden entrance of the National Galleries and the end of this walk.
There's a coffee shop at the garden entrance of the National Gallery where you can rest your tootsies before taking in some of the Gallery's world-class collection of fine art. Don't miss the wonderful collection of Scottish paintings. Like most of Scotland's national museums, the gallery is free.
If by now you've walked your feet off - and if you've touched all the bases in this walk, you've covered 3.3 miles - you can easily catch a bus, a taxi or the Edinburgh tram on The Mound, in front of the gallery, or on Princes Street a few hundred feet north - and downhill.

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Best Overall: The Witchery by the Castle – See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Sumptuous and wonderfully over-the-top."
Best Budget: Motel One Edinburgh-Princes – See Rates at TripAdvisor
"For a three-star hotel, the breakfast is impressive."
Best Waterfront: Fingal – See Rates at TripAdvisor
"A retired and anchored lighthouse tender that has been renovated into 23 rooms."
Best for Couples: Prestonfield House – See Rates at TripAdvisor
"The outside is almost haughtily formal, yet the inside is styled with a sense of mischief and passion."
Best Castle View: Waldorf Astoria Edinburgh - The Caledonian – See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Services make guests feel that they are already royalty."
Best for Singles: The Grassmarket Hotel – See Rates at TripAdvisor
"This labyrinthine building was constructed for the young at heart."
Best for Foodies: 21212 – See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Styled with confidence, the look is a mix of Baroque and classical patterns with eccentric retro touches."
Best During Fringe Festival: Tigerlily – See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Fun and always buzzing."
Best for Families: 94DR – See Rates at TripAdvisor
"One of the best crash pads for those traveling with kids."
 Courtesy of The Witchery
Within a building of secret dens that dates to the 16th century, this extraordinary collection of fantasy suites on the Royal Mile right near Edinburgh Castle is the ultimate vacation hideaway: sumptuous and wonderfully over-the-top. Think along the lines of a Harry Potter or Game of Thrones film set, then up the decadence and amounts of velvet draping, add a top-rated restaurant in the city celebrated by serious foodies, and that will only get close to describing the ambiance. Note, some of the suites are up several floors of a spiral staircase, so for mobility-impaired guests, one of the ground floor suites should be requested. 
While the nine unique suites are thematically gothic and filled with four-poster beds and plush curtaining, they also have more modern touches such as mineral water, Penhaligon toiletries, Bose sound systems, GHD straighteners and cleverly-concealed TVs that do not interrupt the historic vibe. 
Choosing a suite can be difficult, as they all have their own flair – the passionate blood-red Armoury with its bathtub for two, the rooftop Guardroom with privileged views of Princes St. and the hills of Fife, or the glamorous Vestry with its organ pipe headboard and silk-upholstered walls are just three of the enticing options for guests wanting to create an unforgettable stay in Edinburgh.
 Courtesy of Motel One Edinburgh-Princes
There are not too many budget options that also offer a great location in Edinburgh, but the Motel One on Princes Street is an ideal option for travelers not looking to break the bank in Scotland. This hotel is right by Waverley Station and just a two-minute walk to the nearest tram stop. Rooms are not large, but they are functional and have a strong design identity. For example, a drop-down flap also cleverly works as a table with coffee/tea facilities hidden behind, and hanging rods take up otherwise unused space. 
Bathrooms are clean and come with powerful hairdryers and surprisingly great water pressure. For a three-star hotel, the breakfast is impressive, with organic food and fair-trade coffee offered. Pets are welcome with advance notice and children under 12 stay for free. 
 Courtesy of The Fingal
Close to central Edinburgh but with an entirely different feel, Leith is the historical harbor home to the Royal Yacht Britannia as well as two Michelin-starred restaurants. The Fingal, Scotland's first luxury floating hotel, is a retired and anchored lighthouse tender that has been renovated into 23 rooms for discerning guests. Cabins range from classic doubles to decadent suites, all designed with brass fittings, leather, and warm, rich hues.
The most decadent is the roomy Skerryvore Suite, which has a separate sitting room and private decking area. A glamorous ballroom with removable skylight for uninterrupted views of the stars is ideal for a private cocktail event or celebration that can host up to 60 people. Friendly staff welcomes guests who have spent the day strolling around Edinburgh with Afternoon Tea in the Lighthouse Bar. 
 Courtesy of Prestonfield
Although set in a quiet, country-house setting, this Baroque/Georgian mansion five minutes from the center of town is not nearly as conservative as it seems at first glance. The outside is almost haughtily formal, yet the inside is styled with a sense of mischief and passion. Filled with brocades and velvets, rich colors and with flowers, fruits, and candles scattered about, it is definitely one of the more romantic options in Edinburgh. Sixty years ago this private estate on 20 acres of gardens was converted into a boutique hotel, and it’s been one of Scotland’s top lodging options since. There are 18 rooms and five suites to choose from (the most prestigious being the owner’s suite with its book-lined bathroom). The Salon Privee can be booked for an intimate dinner for two. Hidden off a stone turret stair, this romantic nook celebrates privacy while a waiter is always just a bell-call away. 
Courtesy of Waldorf Astoria Edinburgh - The Caledonian
Constructed in 1903, the Waldorf Astoria Edinburgh is an icon offering the largest number of rooms with views of Edinburgh Castle in town. Services at this luxury establishment make guests feel that they are already royalty in a castle, with doormen in top hats, afternoon high teas, a Guerlain spa, and impeccably refurbished rooms. Rooms come in four grades, from Classic to Suites, but the Castle View rooms are best for the view. 
A perfect base to explore Scotland's capital, the hotel is within walking distance of Edinburgh Castle, the Royal Mile, Edinburgh International Conference Center and the Old Town, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. For those who prefer to stay on-site, there is fine-dining restaurant, The Pompadour, a more relaxed eatery called Grazing by Mark Greenaway, and a 12-meter pool, sauna, steam room, and fitness center. 
 Courtesy of The Grassmarket Hotel
Situated just off the Royal Mile right by the castle, there isn’t a more ideal location or a livelier one for singles looking for activities in the city. Historic Grassmarket neighborhood, after which the hotel is named, is the very center of Edinburgh nightlife. This labyrinthine building was constructed for the young at heart. Rooms are whimsically decorated with Dandy comic book wallpaper and magnetic wall maps of the city to plan sightseeing and come with quirky local touches such as Tunnock’s teacakes. 
There is a Saturday farmer’s market to meet both locals and travelers and nearby pubs include the Last Drop Tavern and Biddy Mulligans for chatting up new friends over a beer. Room choices include everything from singles to quads, all including Bluetooth speakers, rainfall showers, and safes. 
The hotel offers bike hire and will even pack guests a picnic lunch to facilitate a relaxed day exploring Edinburgh. 
 Courtesy of 21212
Paul Kitching’s 21212 opened in May 2009 and was awarded a Michelin star in 2010, which it has retained ever since. While known internationally for its gourmet food that expertly blends a dizzying number of distinct flavors, this restaurant also has four guestrooms, two private dining rooms and a sophisticated drawing room. Styled with confidence, the look is a mix of Baroque and classical patterns with eccentric retro touches. 
Each of the four large bedrooms come with a dedicated lounge area, Smart TV with Bluetooth speaker, luxury toiletries, plush bathrobes, and extensive storage space. The rooms are on the two upper levels of the house, with either views over the gardens to the rear or the city of Edinburgh to the front. After a lengthy dinner which includes choices from three starters, a soup, three mains, cheese, then three desserts, fully-indulged guests just have to make their way upstairs to sleep off the food decadence. 
Rooms are available for booking all seven nights of the week. 
Courtesy of Tigerlily 
Perhaps not the best choice the rest of the year for guests who look for quiet tranquillity, Tigerlily gets to shine during the already chaotic and bustling Fringe Festival season. Fun and always buzzing, the hotel has 33 rooms with king-sized beds, stripped wood floors, huge windows, sleek designer bathrooms with White Company goodies, and a well-stocked minibar. Tigerlily is right in the heart of the New Town, on George Street, with some of the best pubs within easy walking distance. The hotel is always offering events, many based around alcohol, such as cocktail-making classes or the Tigerlily Takeover of the hotel for groups with Chandon included. Keeping with their trademark style, the Tigerlily afternoon tea is served with a crisp glass of Veuve Cliquot.
Courtesy of 94DR
With Edinburgh Castle, the Edinburgh Dungeon, the Museum of Childhood, and the Storytelling Centre in the city, Edinburgh is filled with family-friendly activities. One of the best crash pads for those traveling with kids is the Wee Dram bunk room at 94DR, complete with books, DVDs, games, and an Xbox.
Parents can also book the Tamdhu room to create a family suite. For those who wish to bunk all together, an extra bed can be arranged in the Deluxe, Bowmore or Caolisla bedrooms. Front-facing rooms offer views over Salisbury Craggs and Arthurs Seat, while rear-facing rooms provide views over Pentland hills.
From the hotel, it’s an easy bus ride to the city center, as the bus stop is just a few steps from the hotel. Craigmillar Castle, the Commonwealth Pool, and Arthur’s Seat are just a short walk away. There is complimentary bike hire for adults, an honesty bar, and convenient breakfast boxes for those who can’t or don’t want to get the kids up and moving early in the morning. 
The Edinburgh Fringe Festival stages more than 2,000 shows in hundreds of theatres with tens of thousands of individual performances. Choosing shows and getting Edinburgh Festival Tickets can seem like a big challenge.
Some - but unfortunately not all - shows are listed in various newspapers, on billboards and on websites. People in the streets of Edinburgh hand out leaflets, flog tickets and stage scenes from their plays as if their lives depended upon it. And all you want to do is see a few good shows and have a good time. Goodness! What's a body to do?
First things first - Get realBefore you even start to plan, resign yourself to the fact that not only can't you see everything but when it's all over you'll realize there were things you missed because:
Forget about it.
Order a programThe festival organizers publish a thick program that's free (except for postage and packing) and lists everything. You can get your hands on one by:
Score a few Edinburgh Festival tickets......but not too many. It's a good idea to have a few shows lined up before you arrive, especially if they are likely to be sold out quickly or feature an artist you're keen to see. You can buy tickets through:
Half the fun of Edinburgh is being spontaneous. Pick up the buzz about what's hot and act on it fast. Remember, though, you have to get up early to stay ahead of other trend seekers.
It's also fun to just take a chance. See a poster that appeals to you? Like the sound of a name? Go on, what can you lose? If it's a turkey, leave between scenes; there's probably another show or a cabaret just getting started, right up the road. Here are some other ways to find out what's cooking:
The Edinburgh Fringe Festival is big, hectic and chaotic. There are way too many people, way too many shows, way too many impromptu parties, pubs and clubs.
Sounds great doesn't it?
If you are going to make the most of your time at the Edinburgh Festival, a few survival strategies should help. Here are some ideas that will help you have a great time without missing out because you've tried to squeeze too much in or because you are too tired, cold, wet, hungry, thirsty or hungover.
The Edinburgh Festival takes place all over town. Before you arrive, look at some Edinburgh maps, and, most importantly, locate the tourist information office near Waverly Station. If you've never been to Edinburgh before, it's the best place to go for maps and a general overview of the city.
It's possible to book Edinburgh Fringe shows before you arrive. But don't overdo it. If you book up every free minute, you miss the opportunity of picking up on the festival buzz and going after what strikes your fancy on the day. What makes Edinburgh so special is the way you can follow your nose, an attractive poster, a funny leafletter or the advice of a stranger you meet in a pub to discover a show you hadn't heard of two minutes before. You might end up watching a dud, but you also might fall upon the discovery of the festival. That's half the fun.
You know who gets the worm. Be an early bird yourself if you want a chance at the best tickets -- or the best chance at the tickets you want. Sleep late and you'll have to settle for the leftovers, so wakey wakey.
Read the festival program or online guides like the WOW Guide put out by The Scotsman, Edinburgh's local paper. Talk to people over breakfast and then head out with a plan of what tickets, sights, daytime events you'll be going after. Try to stick to it. Otherwise, if you let your head be turned by every tempting offer you pass, you'll end up like one of those people who have to read every menu of every restaurant in town before deciding and end up missing lunch.
Do have a Plan B though, and probably a Plan C and D. If a show (cabaret, comedy act, dance party etc)is hot, tickets will go quickly so it's a good idea to have a few alternative ideas.
 Getty Images
Go after tickets for theatre, stand-up comedy, music, cabaret, physical theater and so forth. Try a couple of daytime workshops or talks with writers and performers. Go tea dancing in The Famous Spiegeltent. Edinburgh showcases everything. Make the most of that fact by trying a variety of performance styles and theatrical forms.
At least five other festivals take place in Edinburgh at the same time as the Edinburgh Fringe Festival. Check them out for a change of pace or to mingle with a different crowd. While at the Fringe, you can also attend:
Edinburgh is a casual party with a lot of walking, plenty of outdoor events and a pretty good chance of rain. This is not the time to break in a new pair of shoes or to totter around on stilletoes. If you don't want to be burdened with an umbrella, plan on having a rain hat and a waterproof mac for the wet weather days you can pretty much count on. Similarly, bring something waterproof for sitting on the ground. And don't forget to bring a few warm things. Even in August you can never tell when the temperature may drop. There is nothing worse than trying to have a good time when you are cold and wet and your feet have blisters.
The time can really slip by during the festival. Days are long and distractions are many. It's easy to miss a meal or two because you are having fun, or because the queues are too long to bother with. Carry some lightweight, high energy snacks and a bottle of water with you. The munchies can strike at any time.
Only you know how many late nights in a row you can handle, how many miles you can walk, how much head banging you can take. Edinburgh is full of sirens to lure you into one more cabaret act, one more pint of beer, another half hour of conversation. And the pubs and clubs stay open until 5 a.m. for the festival. Keep your own limits in mind. That extra drink that seems like such a good idea on the night may seem less of a good thing when you miss a show sleeping off a hangover. Have fun but keep your stamina up.
Maybe you've never considered renting a room in a private home before. Or staying in a hostel. Just because you've set your heart on an Indian meal, don't turn your nose up at pizza. And if you can't get tickets for the comedy act, play, gig, you're after, be willing to take a chance on something else.
The more flexible you are - about accommodations, meals, entertainment - the more you are likely to go with the flow and have a great time.
Whether you are heading there for the Festivals, for Hogmanay or simply to enjoy the pleasures of this beautiful city, it's worth your time and effort. Use these information resources to plan your trip.
More about Edinburgh.
Regular flights from London to Edinburgh leave most of  London's airports throughout the day.
Lowest, one-way economy fares for December 2018 ranged from less than £50 round trip to for budget airlines without checked bags to £100 for very early morning British Airways flights from Gatwick. The average is about £130 and there were several round trip combinations that were well over £200. Prices will depend upon how far in advance you book and what time of year you travel - with the highest fares during August when the Edinburgh Festivals are on. When comparing prices, remember that extra costs charged by the budget airlines - for reserved seats, refreshments on board and checked baggage - can really add up.
The flights take about one and a half hours or slightly less. From the airport, the new Edinburgh Tram whisks you right into the center of Edinburgh in no time at all. But. when making your travel plans, do remember to factor in the time it takes to get to London's airports and the time to get through airport security.
Trains from London  King's Cross Station to Edinburgh  Waverley Station, operated by LNER leave frequently (between every 10 minutes to every half hour depending on the time of day) throughout the day. The journey takes between 4 1/2 and 5 1/2 hours and advance, off-peak winter fare in 2018 starts at about £66 if purchased as two one-way tickets. 
Virgin Trains operate services to Edinburgh on the West Coast Line from London Euston Station.  Direct trains run about every two hours and take between 5 and 5 1/2 hours. Advance tickets and super off peak fares for this service in winter 2018 started at £130.00 when purchased as two, one-way tickets. Other trains from Euston involve one or two changes.
If you are willing to be flexible in your travel plans, you may be able to save quite a bit using National Rail Enquiries Cheap Fare Finder. We found a round trip combination from Euston that was only £53 each way when purchased as two one-way tickets. But on the Edinburgh route, finding these very cheap promotional fares is a bit of a lottery.
The Sleeper - Fans of slow travel can take an overnight sleeper, The Caledonian Sleeper. The train leaves  Euston Station nightly, at about 11:50p.m., arriving in Edinburgh nearly eight hours later,at about 7:30 a.m. Costs in 2018 range from about £45.00 for advance booking of a one way ticket in a sleeper seat, to £180 for a one way ticket in a single berth cabin. If you travel first class, or solo in a standard sleeper cabin, you can take your dog. 
National Express run coaches from London to Edinburgh that take about 9 3/4 hours and cost between £12 and £25 each way. Book in advance as the lowest fares sell out quickly. Buses travel between  Victoria Coach Station in London and Edinburgh Bus and Coach Station. It is worth exploring the Megabus website for this trip because extra cheap fares do become available.
Bus tickets can be purchased online. There is usually a small booking fee.
Edinburgh is 407 miles from London. It takes about 7 1/2 hours to drive, primarily on the M1, M6, M42 and A74 motorways in optimum traffic conditions. But a word of warning, the M1 and the M6 motorways are notorious traffic hot spots and you can easily spend upwards of 12 hours trying to drive this journey in one go. A short stretch of the M6 is a toll road. Keep in mind that gasoline, called petrol in the UK, is sold by the liter (a little more than a quart) and the price is usually between $1.50 and $2 a quart.
Before you start planning a travel budget based on budget prices, remember though that the average budget hotel cost is just that, an average - probably brought down by a fair number of doss houses and Fawlty Towers-type establishments.
All the rooms on this list are doubles with private bathrooms for less than £100 per night. Keep a few things in mind when choosing a cheap room:
Set in University halls of residence or dorms, 2000 rooms are available during spring break and summer vacations. Accommodations are close to Arthur's Seat and about a mile from the city center and Waverley Station.
These rooms are terrific value for the price (sometimes for well below £50). Guests get complimentary:
Internet access is available for a fee and there is ​a bar and cafe available
The Grassmarket area of Edinburgh is central and popular with students, visitors, and locals - so don't expect a quiet night. This hotel has 45 rooms with private bath, television, tea and coffee making, hairdryer and telephone. Breakfast is not included but is available in the adjoining pub. If you join their mailing list you become eligible to try for "Mates Rates" - the ten rooms per month they sell for £1. They announce the £1 rooms through emails and then if you're very quick you might get one.
The hotel is about 5 minutes from Waverley Station. There's no parking but a discount rate at a nearby car park is available.
You'll either love or hate the cheap rooms at the Ben Doran Guest House. Located in a listed Georgian townhouse with period features, it's near the center and promises Gilchrist&Soames toiletries, extra large towels and dressing gowns (on request). There's free off-street parking, Wi-Fi f and a full Scottish breakfast included in the price.
Some guests have complained that it's cold - but most Edinburgh Georgian houses are. It's a fine old Scottish tradition to snuggle up under a feather duvet with a hot water bottle to warm the bed. The hosts at Ben Doran will provide both.
Only two minutes walk from Princes Street and five minutes from Waverley Station in the center of Edinburgh. The Ballantrae is a late Georgian house, built in the 1830's with many original features. Keep in mind the exceedingly low prices when considering this hotel's claim of "luxury" accommodation and self-catering suites.
The hotel has been upgraded and a 2014 refurbishment brought this Grade 2 listed hotel up to 3-star standards. The location is great - the new Edinburgh Tram straight to the airport stops right outside. You can't beat the price and the handy location.
This purpose-built hostel in Edinburgh's Old Town has more going for it than many so-called three-star guest houses. Dorm-style rooms for ten to 12 people, but you can also book a private, twin-bedded room, or a family room for four.
All rooms have en-suite shower and toilet, towels and bed linens, lockers and lots of security features - from safe mobile phone charging to save cycle and baggage lock ups.
There are also women-only rooms, with extra features such as hypo-allergenic duvets and pillows, luxury towels, shampoo and hair conditioner, full-on hairdryers and full-length mirrors.
All in all a good deal for students, backpackers, families and independent travelers.
 
Premier Inns are a national chain of budget hotels with a reasonably good reputation for cleanliness and convenience. Rooms are large, air-conditioned and simply furnished with desk, telephone, television, tea and coffee making facilities, private bath and power shower. Family rooms are available and breakfast is not included. The Leith Waterfront area of Edinburgh is very trendy - with some of the city's best restaurants located there.
This group often advertises ridiculously low lead prices - £29 - £49 - on their website. Don't be seduced by them because you could spend a lifetime changing dates on their reservation widget looking for the limited number of rooms offered at that price. Still, their normal prices are pretty good value for a stopover while touring.
Even closer to the heart of things, Premier Inn's Edinburgh Haymarket is a seriously good deal.
Don't be put off by the location next to Edinburgh's bus station and five minutes from Waverly Rail Station. The Elder York B&B is housed in a well located, Grade A listed building and, while basic, offers reasonable value for money.
Do remember to ask for a private, or ensuite bath because most - but not all rooms have them. And one more proviso - the B&B occupies the second and third floors of the building, with no lift/elevator. So if you're not up to hoicking your luggage up all those stairs, this one's not for you.
The French economy chain Ibis can be counted upon to be reliable and clean, if a bit boring. This one is a rather nice example. It's well located not far from the airport, near public transportation and beside a loch. There's free Wi-Fi access and snacks and drinks. Breakfast isn't included but parking on site is free. 
Scotland's capital city, with a population of about 500,000 (making it the country's second-largest metropolis, following Glasgow), Edinburgh is one of the cultural and arts hubs of the United Kingdom, and a fascinating city with a rich history that dates to the Roman Age. The city is well-known for its creative spirit and lively festivals, including the Edinburgh Festival Fringe and Edinburgh International Book Festival. And each summer, the city plays host to the colorful Pride Edinburgh celebration, aka Scotland Gay Pride - the date this year is July 2, 2016, which is a couple of weeks later than it was last year.
For information on Edinburgh's lively gay scene, check out such resources as the Black Kilt Tours of Scotland Gay Guide to Edinburgh. Also, have a look at the useful Edinburgh & the Lothians travel site produced by Visit Scotland.
Despite inroads made by comedy in recent years, theater still makes up 27% of the festival's 3,269 productions. If you have trouble deciding what movie to see on a Saturday night, you'll probably fry some brain circuits choosing from among the 883 shows on from August 5 to 29 -- not even counting the thousands more performances in comedy,cabaret, family entertainment, music, musicals and opera, dance, circus and physical theater.
These are the shows that I'll be trying to see. I've looked at companies, performers and directors who can be relied upon to be challenging and entertaining, year after year, as well as a selection of new shows that look tempting. With so many to choose from, my list of highlights is bound to be a little bit arbitrary. But so is everyone else's. That's part of the fun of the Edinburgh Fringe - you just have to take the plunge, win some and lose some.
If you are still confused, don't worry - there are lots of places and ways to pick up the Edinburgh Buzz, to find out what's hot and what people are talking about once you get there.
If I had to pick one show that roars into Edinburgh looking like the must see of the festival, it would be Angel- by multi award-winning playwright Henry Naylor. His play Echoes won a Fringe First award in 2015 and has since been produced to much acclaim in London and New York. The concept of Angel is intriguing and it's based on a true story. The Iraqi town of Kobane is under siege by ISIS but the people are depending upon a mysterious female sniper, the Angel of Kobane, who already has 100 jihadi kills notched up. The play, for audiences 12 and older is at The Gilded Balloon Teviot, Aug 3-16, 18-29.
Traverse, based in Edinburgh, is Scotland's new writing theater. The Observer has called it one of the most important theaters in Britain. During the festival, Traverse curates a season of its own productions as well as productions from British and international guest companies, highlights in 2016 include:
Back again for another season at Edinburgh, this Newcastle-based company brings a varied selection of drama, comedy and cabaret including:
London-based Paines Plough, the "self-described national theatre of new writing," returns with one of the highlights of the 2015 season and a worldwide success: 
The London company is bring a mixed bag of cabaret, comedy and drama to the festival. A little surprised that this company, known for new writing, is bringing so much stand-up and so little theater, but there is at least one two-hander that will probably be worth catching:
This organization has been bringing shows to Edinburgh for decades. Hundreds hundreds of talented American and Canadian students appear in dozens of shows at the Church Hill Theatre that may surprise you with their imagination and talent. Among this year's selection, alongside the usual assortment of slickly performed musicals:
For more ideas about plunging into the Edinburgh Festival, check out Festival planning tips.
Read guest reviews and find best value Edinburgh hotel deals on TripAdvisor.
Because Scotland's capital is right in the heart of things, you can find a lot to see and do near Edinburgh: wonderful scenery and outdoor adventures, lochs and forests, castles, scenic wonders, literary landmarks, and equally exciting cities. These 10 day trip destinations are among our favorites.
Loch Lomond is the biggest body of freshwater in Britain and a family-friendly destination. Balloch, on the southern end of the loch, is less than 70 miles from Edinburgh. Easy cycle and walking paths start at this village, and island-hopping cruises depart from there.
Getting There: Take the low road, as the song suggests, to the "bonny, bonny banks of Loch Lomond." Take the M8 out of Edinburgh and through Glasgow, after which you will need to follow the signs along the Clyde (A814 to A82). Stay on the A82 to Balloch, which is well signposted. The trip takes about an hour and a half.
Travel Tip: Balloch Castle and Country Park, a 19th-century baronial estate, comes with gardens and woodlands, and offers terrific views of the loch.
theasis/Getty Images 
Glasglow is full of attractions. It has a brilliant new science center; one of the best transport museums we've ever visited; and the Kelvingrove, a huge purpose-built museum with a little bit of everything, from skeletons of prehistoric critters to Salvatore Dali's "Christ of St John of the Cross." Plus, there are several art galleries to pop into, a terrific dining scene, and good, affordable shopping all over the place.
Getting There: Hop on a train at Edinburgh's Waverley Station and you'll be at Glasgow Queen Street station in about an hour. Trains leave every 15 to 20 minutes all day long and off-peak roundtrip tickets are under 15 pounds.
Travel Tip: While you're in Glasgow, visit the Sharmanka Kinetic Theatre, an almost impossible-to-describe work of mechanical and robotic fantasies that is one of the city's recent runaway successes.
DerekMcDougall/Getty Images 
Loch Awe, at the base of mountain Ben Cruachan, is sometimes smooth as a mirror, while at other times it's wild and choppy. That's because Ben Cruachan conceals a huge hydroelectric plant within a hollowed-out vast chamber. When power is needed, water collected in a lake at the top of the mountain runs down through turbines in Ben Cruachan and into Loch Awe. Don wellies and a rain slicker and take a Cruachan bus tour into the turbine hall. There are also trails up the mountain to the reservoir at the top.
Getting There: It's 106 miles to get to Ben Cruachan, near Dalmally. If you're not hopping on a bus tour, make your way down the motorways to Stirling. Then, take the A84 and A85 the rest of the way.
Travel Tip: Go early and then take your time returning via the A85, enjoying the scenery of Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park along the way.
VWB Photos/Getty Images
 
On the west coast of Argyll is Oban, a lovely, seaside fishing village that sits on a small bay facing the Isle of Mull. Ruined castles are within reach, and the top of the town offers great views across the Western Isles. Hop on a boat for a short excursion around Oban Harbour; Argyll Sea Tours offer one-hour trips to the nearby seal colonies as well as two-hour trips further afield to visit sea porpoises and sea eagles. Oban bills itself as Scotland's seafood capital and their North Atlantic seafood is worth a try.
Getting There: It takes up to three hours to travel the 122 miles by car via the M90 and the A85—but it's a pretty journey well worth your time.
Travel Tip: Oban has a train station, but don't even bother. The trains are all local services and can take between seven and 10 hours. It's possible to cut the time down to four hours by changing at Queen Street in Glasgow—but that becomes a rushed and stressful way to do a day trip. Several tour companies include lunch in Oban in their West Highland excursions. Check Go Scotland Tours.
If you watched Braveheart, you may remember William Wallace declaring "They canna take our FREEDOM!" before leading his men into battle. The battle was for Stirling Bridge, below the castle. This 12th century fortress became a Renaissance royal palace and a symbol of Scottish resistance for centuries. Here, you'll find military and regimental museums, royal tapestries, the Great Kitchens, and a Great Hall built for James IV of Scotland (later James I of England). In the vaults and undercrofts, interactive exhibits and activities are designed to intrigue younger family members. This castle makes a good day trip excursion for families with younger children, but it has enough to entertain visitors of all ages.
Getting There: It's just under 40 miles from Edinburgh, taking less than an hour to get there on the M9. Or take ScotRail toward Dunblane from Edinburgh Waverley. The train ride is about an hour, followed by a 15-minute walk to the castle. You can find off-peak, roundtrip tickets under 10 pounds.
Travel Tip: While you're at Stirling don't miss the monuments for two of Scotland's greatest heroes. The monument to Robert the Bruce is within the castle walls while the statue of William Wallace is about two miles away on foot. If you do walk, you'll have a chance to cross the River Forth on Old Stirling Bridge. And find out why Stirling is one of Scotland's top 10 castles to visit.
The birthplace of golf, there are seven public links courses at St Andrews, run by a trust that protects these historic greens. In all, there are more than 700 acres of links courses and another 222 acres of the Castle Course. Even if you don't plan to play, you can take a guided walking tour of the Old Course—where the game of golf was first played 600 years ago—or explore a family trail.
Everyone from age 3 and up can have a go at the St Andrews Ladies Putting Club (also known as the Himalayas). The three-pound greens fee also covers equipment hire.
Getting There: It's a two-hour bus trip from Edinburgh bus station via the X59 bus route. Or take the 53-mile road trip, heading across the Firth of Forth at Queensferry on the M90 and then traveling east on the A92.
Travel Tip: The West Sands beach, parallel to the Jubilee Course, is where the famous opening sequence of the film "Chariots of Fire" was shot.
 Iain Masterton/Getty Images
Northeast of Edinburgh, Scotland's fourth largest city has turned its history of whaling, textile manufacturing, and Antarctic exploration into a series of fascinating visitor attractions. Visit a jute mill to learn the stories of the workers, or stand on the deck of the Dundee-built ship that Captains Scott and Shackleton sailed on their first voyage to Antarctica. The first branch of the Victoria and Albert Museum outside of London has joined the Royal Research Ship Discovery on the city's waterfront. It all makes for a great day—or two or three—out.
Getting There: It's just a 64-mile drive; first take the M90 and then the A90.
Travel Tip: Don't overlook the McManus Gallery, where art, archaeology, and anthropology are well presented.
 Brian Fairbrother/LatitudeStock/Getty Images
The Falkirk Wheel is the world's first—and only—rotating boat lift (it's like a ferris wheel that carries boats instead of people). The wheel was built to reconnect the Forth and Clyde Canal with the Union Canal. You can board a special vessel built just for visitors to take a ride on it yourself. In good weather, you can also have fun in the Visitor Centre's Splash Zone, where canoeing, pedal boats, stand-up paddleboarding, and bumper boats are available.
Getting There: It's just 23 miles from Edinburgh on the M9 to Junction 8. Or take a local train from Edinburgh to Falkirk Grahamston, Camelon, or Falkirk High Station and then taxi to the wheel.
Travel Tip: Hire a bicycle from the Visitor Centre for the five-mile ride to the Kelpies, a pair of horse head sculptures nearly 100 feet tall; they're the world's largest equine statues.
 Michelle Kelley/Getty Images
They say Sir Walter Scott almost singlehandedly invented Scotland as we know it. His novels, epic poems, essays, and non-fiction books—including "Ivanhoe," "Waverley," "Rob Roy," and "The Lady of the Lake"—created the romantic mythology of the Scottish clans. It was through his deductions that the Honours of Scotland—the Scottish crown jewels—were discovered hidden in a chest.
Scott's home, Abbotsford, is a remarkable fantasy castle full of the writer's treasures, tartans, gardens, and books. It was recently refurbished, and the beautiful walled gardens were restored as well.
Getting There: Abbotsford House is 41 miles southeast of Edinburgh, on the A7 between the towns of Melrose and Galashiels. Trains from Edinburgh Waverley Station take an hour to get to Tweedbank Station, which is roughly a mile from Abbotsford. During the summer and fall, a special mini-bus runs from the station to the house.
Travel Tip: While you are nearby, visit Melrose Abbey, where the heart of Robert the Bruce is said to be buried in a lead casket.
When 19th-century Utopian idealist Robert Owen took over his family's successful textile mill and village, he implemented radical ideas of benevolent paternalism that were way ahead of their time. Decent housing, education, and working conditions—plus overall cultural improvement—were all part of his model industrial village. Now placed on the UNESCO World Heritage list, New Lanark is described as "a milestone in social and industrial history" with lasting influence. The mill continued in operation into the 1960s. Today it is a residential and small business site that welcomes visitors to its museums, model school, and workshops.
Getting There: The easiest way to get there is by car. It's 35 miles and about an hour's drive via the A70 or the M8, southwest of Edinburgh.
Travel Tip: The only waterfalls on the River Clyde form part of a circular walk that starts near the far end of New Lanark Village. The three-mile walk, The Falls of Clyde at New Lanark, passes an impressive group of falls, the tallest being 84 feet. Check the website for maps and details the waterfall walk.
