Florence is such a popular tourist destination that transportation options abound. Here in a nutshell you'll find the essentials for getting to and around Florence.
See also: Tuscany in One Day Guided Tour from Florence
There are two principal airports in Tuscany, both of which are well connected to Florence. The nearest airport to Florence is Aeroporto de Firenze, commonly referred to as Florence Peretola Airport or simply Peretola (and formerly called Aeroporto Amerigo Vespucci), located 4km from the center of Florence. It is a major hub for Vueling, but also has numerous flights from around Europe.
Pisa International Airport, also called Galileo Galilei Airport, is around 80km from Florence. It is the main hub in the area for Ryanair as well as seasonal flights from the US. Galileo Galilei has direct and relatively inexpensive train services to Florence. There are also private transfers from Galileo Galilei to Florence.
Florence airport is the best airport for visiting the city itself; if you are taking a weekend break here, you'd do better to save on transport time and fly as near to the city as possible. However, in many cases this won't be possible.
Of course, if you plan on visiting both Pisa and Florence on the same trip, your options are greater.
This article is about Aeroporto de Firenze.  
By taxi A taxi can make the trip in 15 minutes, and the bus between the airport and Santa Maria Novella railway station takes 20 minutes.
By bus The Volainubus Airport Shuttle connects Florence Airport to downtown Florence. Tickets are purchased on board and cost around five euros. Check the ATAF website for departure times. The website lists the destination as Stazione Galleria/Autostazione Busitalia​, which is the bus station adjacent to the train station.
Private transfer If you like to have your airport transfers arranged ahead of time, Viator offers a variety of transfer options:
By car The airport is accessed from the A11/E76 (following signs saying "aeroporto"). The actual entrance to the airport is rather tricky. You see, Viale Giovanni Luder is a one-way street heading west. You'll be dumped off on the Viale degli Astronauti, which parallels the Viale Giovanni Luder, and will make a loop that takes you around and heads you the right way on Viale Alessandro Guidoni, which turns into Viale Giovanni Luder. Make absolutely sure you're in the right lane on the three-lane Viale Giovanni Luder because that's the only lane that enters the airport, despite what the signs might tell you. If you miss the entrance, you're in for a long loop back.
It might be convenient for you to stay close to the train station, particularly if you plan lots of day trips or if you have an early morning flight. Read reviews of hotels near Florence Train Station on TripAdvisor
  Which Airport is Best for Visiting Florence?  
  How to Get From Florence Airport to Santa Maria Novella Train Station  
  Hotels Near Florence Train Station  
Florence Airport Transfer: Airport to Hotel
Florence Airport Transfer: Hotel to Airport 
On our self-guided walking tour of Florence, you'll get an inside look at several interesting places that were prominent in Florence's history with a few food stops along the way. We'll visit an interesting museum inside a former monastery, the central market, an inexpensive trattoria across the river, a good gelato shop, Florence's oldest building, and the Piazza della Repubblica.
Our Florence walk starts in Piazza San Marco. If you're coming from the train station, walk on Via Nazionale to Piazza Independenza, then turn right on Via Ventisette Aprile. From the Duomo and Baptistery, walk on Via Martelli and continue straight on Via Cavour. (Find the Accademia on this Florence map and zoom in to see Piazza San Marco just above it.)
Piazza San Marco is a major bus hub so it's pretty easy to get there by bus from anywhere in Florence. The number 7 bus from Fiesole stops in Piazza San Marco, too.
When you arrive at the square, have a coffee (standing at the bar to save money) in the Grand Caffe San Marco. Then we're ready to start our tour - continue to page 2, Museo di San Marco.
Note: Although we'll cross Ponte Vecchio and go into the historic center, this tour does not include the Top Things to Do in Florence.
Cross Piazza San Marco to the San Marco church and look inside to see the altar crucifix by Fra Angelico. Then go into the Museo di San Marco beside the church. This is not your usual church museum, in fact, we found it to be one of the more interesting museums in Florence. Inside are frescoes by Fra Beato Angelico, relics of Savonarola, and artifacts from medieval Florence.
The San Marco Museum is housed in what were the cloisters of the monastery, taken over in 1437 by the Dominican order and funded by Lorenzo de Medici. Fra Angelico was one of the monks who lived there and he painted frescoes in many of the monk's cells. Upstairs is the Annunciation, one of his most famous works, and cells along the corridors where you can see frescoes.
Another famous resident was Savonarola (the righteous monk who decried the decadence of Florence's art to end the Renaissance period) and you can see his cell and relics. The large library with an exhibit of important manuscripts was where Savonarola was finally arrested in 1498.
Downstairs are paintings and frescoes by Fra Angelico and other 15th century artists, including a large Last Supper in the bookstore. A long hallway holds interesting relics from what was once Florence's medieval center, destroyed to make way for modernization and the Piazza della Repubblica in the 1860's (more about that when we get to Piazza della Repubblica at the end of our walk, page 7).
Next, we'll make our way to the central market. Turn right at the exit and walk past the Galleria dell' Accademia, then turn right on Via degli Alfani and left on Via Sant Orsola.
As you approach Piazza del Mercato you'll see stalls outside selling leather goods, clothing, and souvenirs. Continue through the stalls until you see a door into the large building that houses Florence's central market, San Lorenzo Mercato Centrale.
The central market was once the main shopping center in Florence for fresh foods but as supermarkets sprang up and more people had cars, the market became less important. Recently foreign immigrants, tourists, and a renewed interest in fresh, local foods have helped the market stay busy.
Even if you don't want to buy anything, it's worth taking a look around the market. You may see foods you've never seen in a market before, like several kinds of cow stomachs and intestines at the Tripperia. There are stands selling all kinds of fowl, meats (including wild boar), and fish.
Of interest to the tourist are shops selling local Tuscan products including wine, biscotti, cheeses, and salami. One of Florence's best-known delicatessens is Perini, where you can taste samples and stock up on picnic items.
If you're hungry and an adventurous eater, stop by Nerbone for an inexpensive lampredotto (cow's stomach) sandwich, a specialty of Florence.
Next, we'll walk across the river for lunch at an inexpensive trattoria. Walk down Via Sant Antonino toward the train station. Along the street watch for La Norcineria (at number 19), an interesting store specializing in pork products. Turn right toward the station, continue in front of the station on the road that curves to the left and heads to Ponte Vespucci, the bridge you'll take to cross the river.
Our friend Kyle Philips, took us to one of his favorite restaurants in Florence (where he lived for many years) - Trattoria Sabatino. But before we get there, let's take another look at lampredotto at the Lampredottaio di San Frediano, one of Florence's best lampredotto stands (and a good place for a really cheap street food meal).
Cross the Arno River on Ponte Vespucci and go straight to Borgo San Frediano (the third street). There you'll see a white cart with a few tables outside. Besides lampredotto panini (sandwiches) they serve pork, tripe, and sausage panini and even a few pasta and meat courses. This is traditional Florentine street food.
But we're heading to the other side of the wall, through Porta San Frediano (the gate) to Via Pisana, 2/r. Here you'll find Trattoria Sabatino, filled with locals.
Trattoria Sabatino has been around since 1956. They serve inexpensive lunches and dinners on weekdays (closed Saturday and Sunday). Three of us ate lunch for 42 Euros (fall, 2008) that included a pasta course, meat course, and side dish along with a half liter of wine and mineral water.
There's a new menu daily that includes dishes they almost always have and a few seasonal dishes. Our first course dishes were a black cabbage and rice soup, tortelli stuffed with potato, and an unusual pasta, pasta sulle rigaglie di pollo, a sauce made with chicken giblets and cockscombs. Pasta and soups were priced at 3.50 to 3.70 Euros. Portions aren't huge but two courses were plenty filling. Meats and fowl ranged from 4.50 to 5.10 Euros. There are a few basic antipasto dishes and several tempting desserts, too. Although nothing fancy, the food was excellent.
Save room for gelato, our next stop. Go back through the wall and walk along the river to the next bridge, Ponte Carraia.
Our next stop is Gelateria La Carraia in Piazza N. Sauro by Ponte Carraia. They serve excellent homemade gelato in a variety of flavors. My cone with two flavors cost one euro. They also have another store, Gelateria La Carraia 2, at Via Benci 24/r.
Walk on the street that continues along the river until you get to the Ponte Vecchio, or old bridge, lined with shops. Built in 1345, this was the first bridge in Florence to cross the Arno River. It's also the only medieval bridge to survive the bombings of World War II.
Cross the river on the Ponte Vecchio and continue walking straight to Piazza della Signoria (slightly off to the right). This square is the heart of Florence's historic center. You'll see lots of sculptures around the square and in the loggia, including a copy of Michelangelo's David.
Next, we're going to see what is probably Florence's oldest building. Exit the piazza on the north and walk up Via ​dei Cerchi.
More: Where to Eat Gelato in Florence | Gelato - Italian Ice Cream
What's believed to be Florence's oldest building is a tower dating from the ninth century, Torre Bizantina della Pagliuzza. From Piazza della Signoria, walk up Via dei Cerchi. Cross Via del Corso and continue straight on Via Sant Elisabetta, then look for the Hotel Brunelleschi on the left.
The restored tower and the medieval church, San Michele in Palchetto, are now part of the hotel. Inside the tower part of the hotel is a private museum with medieval ceramics found during the restoration and the remains of a Roman bath (one of the few Roman remains in Florence).
Next, we're heading to Piazza della Repubblica so backtrack to Via del Corso and turn right.
Note: If you want to see the Duomo now, continue on Via Sant Elisabetta until it ends, then take a left and a quick right. This will put you in Piazza dell Duomo.
In Piazza della Repubblica we've come full circle. Remember those remains of medieval Florence we saw in San Marco Museum? Here's where they came from.
As you enter the piazza, you'll see a big arch with an inscription on top (shown in the photo). It refers to this area of Florence as squalor that had to be cleaned up and given new life. What was once an important market center in medieval times became the modern Piazza della Repubblica when Florence was the capital of the newly unified country of Italy (1865-1871).
Piazza della Repubblica is ringed with cafes with outside tables (with high service charges) used mainly by tourists. Florentines still frequent the cafes but you'll find them inside where prices are lower, according to Kristin Stasiowski of Context Florence.
Two cafes on the square are major cultural monuments. Donnini Pasticceria has the best coffee in Florence (and great pastries), according to Kristen. It's one of the historical cafes where intellectuals and writers used to hang out in the late 19th century. Inside you'll see old pictures of Florence.
Next door is Giubbe Rosse, filled with contemporary art. It's stocked with newspapers, magazines, and news of cultural events. Inside, the popular lunch buffet is 5 euro and in the evening there's an antipasto buffet that comes with the price of a drink, 4 euro for a glass of prosecco (prices as of fall, 2008). There's no service charge at either place for sitting inside but remember that you'll pay a hefty price for outside service.
Our walking tour ends here. You can go inside Donnini for a coffee or if it's late enough, go into Giubbe Rosse and enjoy an apertivo.
To return to Piazza San Marco, exit the square the way you came in. Turn left on Via dei Calzaiuoli, pass through Piazza San Giovanni and continue straight. This becomes Via Cavour and leads to Piazza San Marco.
  Florence Walk Introduction  
  Piazza San Marco and San Marco Museum in Florence  
  San Lorenzo Market, Florence's Central Market  
  Lunch at Trattoria Sabatino  
  Gelato, Ponte Vecchio, and the Historic Center of Florence  
  The Oldest Building in Florence  
  Piazza della Repubblica  
Florence, Firenze in Italian, is on many a traveler's must-visit list. Considered the birthplace and the nucleus of the Italian Renaissance, the city is famous for its stunning architecture, famous works of art, important landmarks, and delicious food. For visitors to Florence, the most challenging part of their stay might be the high volume of fellow travelers—the city is busy much of the year, with crowds peaking spring through early fall. 
Deciding when to visit depends on what matters more to you—good weather or minimal crowds. Winter brings smaller crowds but also inclement weather. Spring and fall are both glorious weather-wise but crowded. In the summertime, Florence is very hot and packed with U.S. students visiting for summer abroad programs. Ultimately, the best time to visit is early spring, say March or April—you'll be sightseeing in colder temperatures and rainy weather but with fewer crowds than other times of the year.
The weather in Florence is seasonal and typical for southern Europe. That means that summers, particularly July and August, are usually extremely hot, with daytime temperatures reaching into the 90s and sometimes even cracking 100 degrees Fahrenheit during an extreme heatwave. Summer evenings are cooler, but you'll seldom need a jacket or sweater. Springtime is widely regarded as the best weather. Although there may be some rainy days, April and May offer generally sunny and pleasant days and cool nights. September can still be quite warm but nights are cooler. October is usually sunny and cool and a good time to visit before November and December, which can be rainy. January to March is mildly cold and often cloudy, if not rainy. Snow is infrequent in Florence.
All that said, the weather in Florence, as in the rest of Italy, is increasingly unpredictable. July may see a surprise cold front, and a normally sunny and dry month may be rainy and overcast for weeks on end. You might need barely a sweater in January or February, or you might be throwing snowballs in the Piazza della Signoria. The moral of the story is to be prepared and pack layers, as well as a rain jacket and an umbrella.
If you visit Florence from April to October, you will find it crowded—there's simply no avoiding other tourists (lots of them) in one of Europe's most popular destinations. The city's main thoroughfares and popular piazzas will be wall-to-wall people, and narrow arteries, such as the Ponte Vecchio bridge, will be packed and slow-moving. At any time of year, you should plan to reserve in advance for timed entrance to the attractions you don't want to miss, such as the Uffizi and Accademia galleries. Otherwise, you will spend your precious vacation time waiting in line possibly for hours with all those other people who didn't plan ahead. If you want to climb Brunelleschi's iconic dome at the aptly named Duomo, you must reserve in advance for that as well.
If you can put up with rainy and possibly cold weather, a visit from November to March (with the exception of the Christmas/New Year holidays) means you'll find diminished crowds and greater availability in hotels and restaurants. You'll never have the city to yourself, of course, but you may be able to gaze at the Botticelli's Birth of Venus, Michelangelo's David or Ghiberti's Gates of Paradise without someone trying to jostle for position right next to you. And while there might be shorter lines to enter museums and other monuments, we still recommend you reserve in advance wherever you can to avoid delays or disappointment. 
Since Florence hosts tourists year-round, its tourist attractions and hospitality providers tend to follow suit. August is traditionally the month when Italians take their vacations and clear out of hot cities to head to the sea. So you may see some stores, restaurants, and even smaller hotels closed down for all or part of August, though this is less and less prevalent. Tour providers may run fewer tours in winter months, but chances are if you're interested in a city tour or food tour, you'll be able to find a tour that suits you any time of the year. Tourist attractions will remain open year-round, with the exception of December 25 and January 1, when virtually every attraction will be closed. Some attractions will close on Easter Sunday, all of Holy Week, or the entire week between Christmas and New Year's Day. Note that most museums in Florence are closed on Mondays.
If your goal is to save money on your vacation to Florence, then you should absolutely visit in the off-season. From November to March, particularly after the first week of January and before Easter, hotel prices are much lower and there are some real bargains to be had. International airfares are typically at their lowest during this period as well. 
Florence's Easter event, the Scoppio del Carro, takes place in March or April, depending on when Easter falls. April 25 is a Liberation Day all over Italy and a national holiday. May sees the Maggio Musicale Fiorentino music festival and a gelato festival. June 24 is the feast day of St. John the Baptist, the patron saint of Florence, and the date of the final match of the Calcio Storico, a historic soccer match that is a raucous free-for-all. Estate Fiornetina, a summer arts and music festival, takes place in May, June, and July and Pitti Week, a major men's fashion and accessories show, is held in June. The Festa della Rificolona or Festival of the Lanterns, is held September 7 and includes a lantern parade, boat parade, and a fair. 
Throughout the month of December, you'll find Christmas markets, including a popular German-style market on Piazza Santa Croce. For more on events and holidays in Florence throughout the year, see our Florence Month-by-Month guide. 
January is one of the coldest months in Florence, with daily temperatures ranging from an average high of 52 degrees F to 36 degrees F and the possibility of sleet or snow. You'll want to dress warmly (layers are always best), and plan on temperatures dropping significantly after sunset, which will be around 5 p.m. 
Events to check out:
February weather is similar to January—it's one of Florence's coldest months. You might get lucky with some clear, crisp days. Snow is possible, but increasingly less likely.
Events to check out:
March may tease you with incredibly pleasant spring weather, followed by a late winter snowstorm. While you'll probably be okay with a mid-weight jacket, make sure it's waterproof and roomy enough for some layers underneath, if necessary.
Events to check out:
While April weather can also be unpredictable, it's usually more reliably warm (but not yet hot), especially after Easter. You're still wise to pack a waterproof jacket, plus a scarf and sweater for chilly nights.
Events to check out:
May sees mostly warm, sunny days with the occasional rainy day or days thrown into the mix. Evenings will still be pleasantly cool, so pack a few lightweight layers.
Events to check out:
Even though summer doesn't officially begin until June 21, it will likely have arrived in Florence by late May/early June. Bring a hat, sunscreen, and lightweight clothing, though do make sure your shoulders and legs (to the knee) are covered for entering churches. Pack a small umbrella, just in case June decides to be rainy.
Events to check out:
July in Florence is hot. The only variance might be in how hot, but in any case, be prepared for daytime temps of 90 degrees F or higher. Do as the Italians do, and rest in your cool hotel room during the hottest part of the afternoon, before venturing out again around 6 p.m.
Events to check out:
August is traditionally the month when Italians head to the sea for their annual vacations, so you may find some stores and businesses closed, though most attractions will remain open. Like July, August is hot. Temperatures in the high 90s are not unusual. Seek shade whenever possible, and carry a refillable water bottle and refill it often.
Events to check out:
Was that an ever-so-slight hint of a cool breeze? It must be September in Florence, when daytime temperatures are mostly tolerable and evenings can be perfectly lovely. Pack a sweater, and enjoy one of the most pleasant months in Florence. 
Events to check out:
Perhaps our favorite month in Florence, October is marked by beautiful sunny, cool days and chilly nights. You'll need layers but not a heavy coat. Note that this one of the most popular times to visit Florence—apparently the great fall weather and clear skies are an open secret. 
Events to check out:
Cool and rainy November is still a great month to visit Florence, as long as you pack for the weather. Crowds have died down this month, and you'll find it much easier to reserve at hotels and restaurants. Don't discount the beauty and tranquility of a walk through rainy Florence (assuming you've got an umbrella).
Events to check out:
Easily one of the coldest months of the year, Florence in December warms hearts nonetheless with its festive holiday decorations and atmosphere. Pack for winter weather, but also allow for peeling off some layers if the temperatures are mild. 
Events to check out:
  Weather in Florence  
  Crowds in Florence  
  Seasonal Attractions and Businesses  
  Prices in Florence  
  Florence Holidays and Events  
  January  
  February  
  March  
  April  
  May  
  June  
  July  
  August  
  September  
  October  
  November  
  December  
La Befana, or Epiphany, on January 6
​Carnivale may fall in February, depending on the date of Easter.
The Fiero Del Cioccolato (chocolate fair) takes place over 10 days in early February. It's held at Piazza Santa Croce.
If Carnevale didn't fall in February, it will take place in March.
Holy Week, the week leading up to Easter, will see masses and processions throughout the city.
The Scoppio del Carro, one of Florence's most important events, takes place in front of the Duomo after Easter Sunday mass.
Easter and Holy Week, if not in March
Gelato Festival is in early April.
Festa della Liberazione, or Liberation Day, on April 25 is a national holiday marking the end of World War II. 
Maggio Musicale Fiorentino, a classical music festival, takes place throughout the month.
Estate Fiorentina kicks off this month, with a summer-long series of concerts, art exhibits, and dance performances.
​Calco Storico: ​This historic football (soccer) match is one of Florence's best-loved and rowdiest events. It takes places June 24, on the feast day of St. John the Baptist, the city's patron saint. There's a big fireworks show that night.
Estate Fiorentina continues this month.
If you have a way to get out of the city, smaller towns outside of Florence will have sagre, or local food festivals.
The Festa di San Lorenzo takes place the evening of August 10 at Piazza San Lorenzo, with live music and free food for everyone.  
Ferragosto, August 15, marks the quasi-official end to the summer holidays. Expect some closures, but also a party atmosphere (more than usual) in piazzas and nightlife zones.
The Festa della Rificolona or Festival of the Lanterns, is held September 7 in honor of the Virgin Mary. The evening procession starts at Piazza Santa Croce and winds through Piazza della Signoria and Piazza del Duomo before finishing at Piazza S.S. Annunziata.
The Nativity of the Virgin Mary, September 8, is marked by a special free opening of the Duomo terrace to all visitors.
Held in odd-numbered years, the ​Biennale dell'Antiquariato di Firenze is a major antiques show and sale held either during the last week of September or the first week of October.
The Festa di Santa Reparata on October 8 celebrates Florence's first cathedral, built at the present site of the Duomo.
​November 1 is All Saints' Day, a public holiday.
Lace up your running shoes for the Florence Marathon, held the last Sunday of the month.
A traditional German-style Christmas Market takes place on Piazza Santa Croce.
FirenzeWinterpark ice-skating rink is open at Teatro Tuscanyhall, about 3 miles from the centro storico.
If you're in Florence for New Year's Eve, choose from gala dinners or parties and concerts in piazzas, followed by fireworks over the city—any of the bridges are a good vantage point. 
For first-time and repeat visitors to Italy, Florence is a must-see destination. The capital city of the Tuscany region is known for its Renaissance-era artistic treasures, world-class art museums, and the colorful history that unfolded here over the centuries. It's also a center for food and wine lovers with the culinary wealth of Tuscany in its backyard. A model Italian city and also a very popular one with tourists, Florence is a delight to visit.
Best Time to Visit: Florence is at its most crowded and its hottest in June, July, and August, when family travelers, tour groups and summer abroad students pack the city. Spring and fall are still very busy seasons, but offer breaks from the heat, but fall especially can be rainy. Winters in Florence range from mild to bitterly cold, though crowds are greatly diminished.
Language: Italian is the first language in Florence, but shop owners and hotel and restaurant workers generally speak at least a little bit of English, and often French and German as well.
Currency: Florence and all of Italy uses the euro, and other currencies are not accepted. Credit cards such as Visa and Mastercard are accepted everywhere, with the exception of most street food stalls and smaller, independent merchants. It's always a good idea to have cash on hand when visiting Florence's many food and craft markets. Note that American Express and Diner's Club are less widely accepted in Italy. Be sure to confirm in advance with your hotel or restaurant if you intend to pay with these cards.
Getting Around: The vast majority of Florence's attractions are in the flat, walkable centro storico (historic center), much of which is pedestrian-only. So walking is the most practical means of getting around, with most points of interest being no more than 20 minutes from one another. If your feet need a break, small buses, run by ATAF, ply the centro storico, as do horse-drawn carriages, which gather near the Duomo to wait for passengers. Two tram lines connect to the airport and to points west of the city. We advise against renting a car or driving in Florence as parking is scarce and expensive, streets are difficult to navigate, and it's very easy to get a traffic ticket for inadvertently driving in a zone closed to traffic.
Travel Tip: If you are set on visiting Florence's most popular museums (see below), you should absolutely reserve your tickets in advance, otherwise you could spend hours waiting in line. For visiting the Duomo, including climbing to the dome or up Giotto's Bell Tower, plan to arrive first thing in the morning to beat both the heat and crowds.
Visitors come to Florence for its high Renaissance art and architecture, including masterpieces of Italian painting and sculpture by artists such as Michelangelo, Da Vinci, Donatello, and Ghiberti. As a long-time artisanal center, Florence is also known for its leather goods, which can be purchased in open-air markets or small shops. Florence is also foodie heaven, with wine bars, trattorias, fine dining restaurants, and street food vendors tempting visitors with the bounty of the Tuscan countryside, including its hearty red wines.
As the capital of Tuscany, Florence benefits from the agricultural riches of the region, making it a great destination for excellent food and wine. Meals are typically meat-heavy, with bistecca alla Fiorentina, a thick T-bone steak, occupying the top of the food chain. Cured meats like prosciutto and mortadella appear on platters of mixed appetizers, called tagliere, along with regional cheeses, olives, and breads. Courageous eaters might want to try lampredotto or trippa, made from offal, organ meats of cows. Popular sweets include cantucci, almond biscuits eaten with coffee or sweet vin santo wine, and of course, gelato.
Tuscany is famous for its red wines, which naturally make their way into Florence's wine bars, enotecas, and restaurants. Chianti, Brunello di Montalcino, and Vino Nobile di Montepulciano are among the region's most famous varieties, and Brunello, along with hybrid Super Tuscans, can command high prices. But don't turn up your nose at a modest house wine or inexpensive bottle of red or white—these are often good quality and highly drinkable. Finish your meal with a small glass of vin santo, Tuscany's popular dessert wine.
For wine bars where you can sample different types of wine while snacking on local specialties, head to the Santo Spirito, San Niccolò or San Frediano, the less touristy zones south of the Arno River.
Explore our articles on the best restaurants in Florence, the best Tuscan wine tours, and the best gelato in Florence.
Despite the glut of hotels, B&Bs, hostels and Airbnb rentals in Florence, the city fills up in peak periods. So it's never a good idea to arrive in Florence without a room reserved. Budget hotels are clustered around the Santa Maria Novella train station, as well as into the adjacent San Lorenzo area. Prices, though not necessarily quality, go up the closer one gets to the Duomo. Luxury properties are all over the city, especially around Piazza della Republica and Piazza della Signoria. Visitors seeking a more locals' feel might want to head to Oltrarno, south of the Arno River, for apartment rentals and B&Bs.
Consider our recommendations for the best hotels in Florence, or for something farther afield, the best castle hotels in Tuscany.
If your trip to Italy includes more than one city or region, chances are you'll arrive in Florence on a train. The majority of trains call at Santa Maria Novella station, abbreviated Firenze SMN, the main transport hub of the city. There are dozens of trains arriving and departing daily for Rome, Venice, Milan, and destinations across Italy. Flights to Florence arrive at Amerigo Vespucci Airport, also called Florence (Firenze) Peretola, a small airport just outside of town. Note that if your flight arrives at Pisa (sometimes referred to as Pisa/Florence airport), you'll have a 90-minute trip to get to Florence.
If you've rented a car in Italy and are driving to Florence, be sure to get very specific instructions from your hotel on how to reach the property and where to park your car. Florence is a minefield for traffic tickets, since so many of the streets in its centro are pedestrian-only, one-way, or open only to local traffic. Wherever you stay in the city, plan on parking your car when you arrive and leaving it there until the end of your stay.
For more on train travel in Italy, see our articles on getting around Italy by rail and what to know about traveling by train in Italy.
Because Florentines are so accustomed to tourists, there aren't any hard and fast customs that you need to adhere to while here, other than basic good conduct and respect for the city. As in the rest of Italy, that means no dipping your feet or other body parts in fountains, no matter how hot it is outside, dressing modestly in churches and other religious structures, avoiding public drunkenness, and generally, just behaving like a decent human being.
Some other tips to keep in mind in Florence:
Florence is not one of Italy's most expensive cities but it's certainly not its cheapest. Follow these tips for saving a few euros on your visit:
  Planning Your Trip  
  Things to Do  
  What to Eat and Drink  
  Where to Stay  
  Getting There  
  Culture and Customs  
  Money Saving Tips  
Museums: Art lovers will not want to miss the Uffizi Gallery, home to Botticelli's Birth of Venus, among thousands of other famous works. The Accademia Gallery is home to Michelangelo's sculpture of David, one of the most iconic in the world. The Bargello, Museo di San Marco and the Pitti Palace also contain famous, priceless collections.
Markets: For leather goods, the San Lorenzo Outdoor Market is the place to shop and haggle a bit, while the adjacent Mercato Centrale offers a dazzling array of shops selling produce, meats, cheeses, and everything edible. Mercato Nuovo, near Piazza della Signoria, also features leather goods, but prices are better at San Lorenzo.
Churches and Landmarks: Plan to visit Florence's massive Duomo, perhaps opting to climb either the dome or the neighboring Bell Tower. See the history-filled Piazza della Signoria and the Palazzo Vecchio before walking across Florence's oldest bridge, the Ponte Vecchio to explore the colorful neighborhoods of Oltrarno, "the other side of the Arno."
Explore more things to do with our full-length articles on the top sights and attractions in Florence, the best free things to do in Florence, and our month-by-month guide to what's on in Florence.
Dinner is eaten later in Italy, especially in the summertime. Most restaurants won't start serving until 7:30 or so, and may not fill up until 9 p.m.
You waiter won't bring you the check ("il conto") unless you ask for it.
Tap water is not served in Italy, so bottled water it is.
If "servizi" or "pane e coperto" is listed on your restaurant bill, this counts as a tip. If your server has been particularly attentive or helpful, don't hesitate to leave a few euros on the table.
Keep an eye on your personal belongings at all times, especially on the crowded Ponte Vecchio, in busy markets and even in crowded museums. Don't leave your bags under your table or chair while dining or hanging off the back of your chair in a busy area.
While most everyone working in hotels, restaurants, and tourist attractions and shops speaks some English, it's always polite and appreciated to offer a few basic niceties in Italian, such as buongiorno (good day), per favore (please) and grazie (thank you).
Read more about customs and culture in Italy with our list of 10 things not to do on your Italian vacation.
Travel in the off-season, when hotel prices are markedly lower.
Lunch on the go: A piece of focaccia or schiacciata, a crunchy pizza bread stuffed with Italian cold cuts, cheese, and vegetables makes for a cheap, filling lunch.
Hit the side streets: Dining or even getting gelato on Florence's main streets and piazzas is going to cost you, and your meal might be memorable only because of the price tag. Instead, explore the narrow side streets and hole-in-the-wall eateries and gelaterias, where you'll eat better and spend less.
Read more about how to visit Florence on a budget.
Florence is one of the most popular travel destinations in Italy and is very often on the itinerary for first-time visitors along with Rome and Florence. One of the wealthiest cities during the Italian Renaissance, Florence is home to classical works of art, historic architecture, and of course, natural beauty as well as a rich history of culinary excellence.
This capital city of the Tuscany region has a large number of impressive sights and attractions, including some of Italy's best museums and its most beautiful cathedrals and churches. Along with its picturesque streets and squares, elegant buildings and bridges, colorful markets, and excellent shopping areas, you'll also find some of the best restaurants in the country in this thriving urban center.
Fortunately, Florence's centro storico (historic center) is compact, flat, and walkable. Meaning you'll be able to easily take in all of the city's top attractions—from its world-famous sites to some lesser-known discoveries.
 Taylor McIntyre / TripSavvy
Florence's most popular site is its Duomo (cathedral), the Cattedrale di Santa Maria del Fiore. Construction on the Duomo began in 1296, but it wasn't consecrated until 1436. Its exterior, made of green, pink, and white marble, has several elaborate doors and interesting statues.
Inside the cattedrale, there are dozens of paintings and sculptures of tremendous historical and cultural significance, so give yourself some time to take it all in. While you're there, try to count all 44 of the stained-glass windows designed by notable Renaissance artists such as Donatello, which depicts Jesus, Mary, and some of the saints. 
The main attraction of this massive structure is Brunelleschi's Dome, a masterpiece of architecture and construction. You'll definitely want to buy a ticket to climb the 463 steps to its top.
 Atlantide Phototravel/Getty Images
Set on Piazza del Duomo to the right of the church, the Museo dell’Opera del Duomo houses many of the original works and blueprints from art and architecture related to Florence’s Duomo complex. 
The original versions of Lorenzo Ghiberti’s panels for the Baptistery doors are here, as are exhibits of Duomo architect Brunelleschi’s plans and Renaissance-era tools used to build the Duomo. 
 Taylor McIntyre / TripSavvy
The Baptistery of John the Baptist, from the 11th century, is one of Florence's oldest buildings. Located in both the Piazza San Giovanni and the Piazza del Duomo across from Florence Cathedral and the Campanile di Giotto, its exterior is made of green and white marble and has three sets of amazing bronze doors, the most famous of which are the "Gates of Paradise," designed by sculptor Lorenzo Ghiberti.
You can buy one ticket that allows you to visit all the attractions within the Duomo complex, including the Baptistery. However, the massive exterior doors with scenes from the Bible and the interior dome's mosaics that show even more Biblical depictions make the Baptistery worth a visit all on their own. 
The Campanile (Italian for "bell tower") is also in the Piazza del Duomo. Principal architect Giotto di Bondone began work on the structure in 1334, and the lower level is commonly called Giotto's Campanile, even though he died before the structure was completed. 
Inside the Campanile, you'll find intricately detailed relief carvings and sculptures as well as replicas of the 16 original life-sized statues created by artists such as Andrea Pisano and Donatello (the originals are in the Museo dell’Opera del Duomo).
If you climb the 414 stairs (there's no elevator in this Gothic tower), you'll be rewarded not only with great views of the Cathedral and its dome but of Florence and the surrounding area.
Florence's most famous square is Piazza della Signoria, the heart of the historic center and a free open-air sculpture exhibit. The Loggia della Signoria holds some important statues, and a copy of Michelangelo's David stands on the square.
The piazza has been Florence's political center since the middle ages and is the site of both Florence's town hall and the medieval Palazzo Vecchio. Inside the Palazzo are elaborately decorated public rooms and private apartments that are open to tourists.
 Taylor McIntyre / TripSavvy
The Ponte Vecchio (old bridge), built in 1345, was Florence's first bridge across the Arno River and is the only surviving bridge from Florence's medieval days (others were destroyed in World War II).
The always-crowded Ponte Vecchio is still lined with shops selling gold and silver jewelry. From the bridge, you'll have a great view of the Arno River and beyond.
Florence's Galleria dell' Accademia holds important paintings and sculptures from the 13th to 16th centuries.
Along with works by important Renaissance artists like Uccello, Ghirlandaio, Botticelli, and del Sarto, you'll also find one of the most famous sculptures in the world, Michelangelo's "David," at the Galleria dell' Accademia. There is also an interesting collection of musical instruments here, which was started by the Medici family.
It's generally a good idea to book your tickets ahead of time if you plan to stop by this popular destination; ticket lines to see the statue of David can be quite long. While admission is free, booking your ticket in advance online gives you access to a shorter line for ticket holders.
The Galleria degli Uffizi holds the world's most important collection of Renaissance art, as well as thousands of paintings from medieval to modern times and many antique sculptures, illuminated manuscripts, and tapestries.
Also known as the Uffizi Gallery, this famous institute houses the works of artist such as Michelangelo, Giotto, Botticelli, Leonardo da Vinci, Perugino, and Raphael. With all these artists in one place, allow plenty of time to fully appreciate all of their collected works, so set aside at least a few hours if you plan to visit.
The Uffizi is Italy's most crowded museum so it's a good idea to buy tickets ahead of time to avoid long ticket lines. The gallery also features free admission on the first Sunday of each month, but expect higher than normal crowd levels if you attend that day.
Across the Ponte Vecchio, you'll find the Giardino di Boboli (Boboli Garden), a huge park on a hillside in the middle of Florence. Located behind the Pitti Palace, with its beautiful gardens and fountains offer a great view of Florence from the Forte Belvedere, this famous park is great for a picnic before stopping into the palace for a tour of its many galleries.
The Palazzo Pitti, Florence's largest palace, was once the seat of the Medici family. Originally the home of a banker named Luca Pitti, this massive building houses the living quarters of its past inhabitants as well as eight different galleries that are full of art, period costumes, and jewelry.
Petti Palace is open for tours on Tuesdays through Fridays from 8:15 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. but is closed on Mondays as well as New Years and Christmas days. Tickets are required to explore the palace, but discounts are available if you combine your visit with other museums in Florence.
 Taylor McIntyre / TripSavvy
Santa Croce, in Piazza Santa Croce, is the largest Franciscan church in Italy and holds the tombs of several important Florentines including Michelangelo, Galileo, and Machiavelli. Additionally, the vast interior contains some exceptional stained glass windows and frescoes, including one of Brunelleschi's most important works, the Cappella dei Pazzi.
Families and individual guests can enter the complex of Santa Croce from Largo Bargellini, just around the corner from the Piazza Santa Croce, where you'll find the ticket booth. The complex is open Mondays through Saturdays from 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. as well as on Sundays and Holy Days of Obligations from 2 to 5 p.m.
Florence has some of the finest shopping in Europe, offering everything from leather goods and fine food to jewelry, souvenirs, and fine art. Whether you want to visit a luxury retailer or high fashion boutique or explore some of the open-air markets selling local goods and antiques, there's plenty of ways to shop in Florence year round.
For open-air markets and antique sales, look around the famed Piazza San Lorenzo area, and across the Arno, Piazza Santo Spirito is the place to go for produce as well as vintage clothing, accessories, antiques, and pottery. Meanwhile, the Mercato Nuovo (Porcellino) on Via Porta Rossa and the Mercato Centrale also are great places to find local fashions and delicacies.
 
Kino Alyse/Getty Images 
Piazzale Michelangelo in Florence is an outdoor terrace on the south (or left) bank of the River Arno. Its position high on a hillside above the Arno means visitors who make the climb (or take the bus) are rewarded with breathtaking views of the city.
The Piazzale is named after Michelangelo Buonarotti and is adorned with bronze copies of some of his most famous sculptures. The view at sunset, when the skyline of Florence is spread out before you, is one of the most unforgettable in Italy.
While you're waiting for the sunset, wander around Giardino delle Rose and Giardino dell'Iris on either side of Piazzale Michelangelo or head over to the Basilica di Santo Spirito, a residential district featuring dozens of cafes and restaurants.
 
Maremagnum/Getty Images 
This lively piazza and the Santo Spirito neighborhood that surrounds it form part of Florence's "Left Bank," a colorful, slightly bohemian area favored by local residents as well as visitors seeking a slice of authentic Florence.
By day there are produce vendors and interesting shops set up around the piazza, and by night, crowds from bars and restaurants spill out onto the main streets and nearby sidewalks.
The Basilica di Santo Spirito, rather plain from the outside, contains several important works of art and is open to the general public most days out of the year. Next door, you'll also find the Museo della Fondazione Romano, which houses "Cenacolo di Santo Spirito," a piece of art by Andrea Orcagna.
 
ClaraNila/Getty Images
If you've made the climb to Piazzale Michelangelo, continue on another 10 minutes or so to the Abbey of San Miniato al Monte, a beautiful 11th-century abbey where, on most days at 5:30 pm, monks still observe a Gregorian chant. The interior is every bit as lovely as the green and white marble exterior, so take the time to go in and look around.
 
Peter Barritt/robertharding/Getty Images 
The 13th-century building that houses the Museo Nazionale del Bargello, or more simply "The Bargello," was once a police barracks and a prison. Today it's a sculpture and decorative arts museum with works from Michelangelo, Donatello, Verrocchio, and Giambologna. 
Located in the historic Palazzo del Podestà and established in 1865 by royal decree, the National Museum of Bargello was Italy's first official national museum. You'll find fewer crowds at this museum than at other big museums in Florence.
 
Sylvain Sonnet/Getty Images 
For a bit of art history outside of Michaelangelo and the other famous Renaissance artists, visit the San Marco Monastery Museum to see the works of Fra Angelico, an Early Renaissance painter and monk, as well as the home of his predecessor, the revolutionary monk Savonarola.
Now open as a museum, San Marco Monastery was once the home of Fra Angelico, who painted several of his best-known frescoes on its walls and in its humble cells. Visit the rooms of both Savonarola and Fra Angelico, which contains several of their personal effects as well as a famous portrait of Savonarola painted by their fellow monk Fra Bartolomeo. 
 Mondadori Portfolio/Getty Images
Florence's National Archaeological Museum houses collections of Greek, Roman, and Egyptian works of art, much of which was amassed by the Medici family.
The museum also has one of the best collections of Etruscan artifacts, including the priceless Chimera of Arezzo, an intact bronze statue of a mythological lion with a snake for a tail and a goat head protruding from its side.
Part of the Tuscany Museum Complex, admission is required to explore the National Archaeological Museum of Florence, but you can pair your entry with entry to other nearby museums for a discounted price.
Mondadori Portfolio/Getty Images
Florence's ruling Medici family was known for their ruthless ambition and grandiosity, and this was as true in death as it was in life. Constructed to house the remains of several of the royal family, Cappelle Medicee is an elaborate mausoleum for the Medici dukes that features enormous tombs with sculptures by Michelangelo.
There's no place else in the world where you can observe the Renaissance master's work this close up, and the tomb sculptures, including allegories of Night, Day, Dawn, and Dusk, are among his most contemplative works.
The museum is open year-round on Mondays to Sundays from 8:15 a.m. to 1:50 p.m. but is closed on the second and fourth Sunday of the month, on first, third and fifth Monday of the month, New Year's Day, May 1, and Christmas Day.
 Laura Lezza/Getty Images
This large indoor and outdoor market has a lot of seemingly everything—from produce and clothing to leather goods and cheap souvenirs.
The outdoor portion of the market starts at Piazza San Lorenzo and offers hundreds of stalls packed with merchandise. The indoor market, or Mercato Centrale, is foodie heaven, with stalls selling locally-sourced produce, meats, and cheeses as well as a dining hall where you can pick out lunch or a snack from one of a dozen or so gourmet vendors. 
Haydn Blackey/Flickr 
Head to the Farmaceutica di Santa Maria Novella for perhaps the most unique gifts—for yourself or friends back home—in all of Florence. Affiliated with Santa Maria Novella church, the Officina Profumo is one of the oldest apothecaries in the world and still makes perfumes, soaps, and elixirs according to centuries-old recipes developed by monks.
A trip to the Officina is part shopping spree and part museum visit, as the fancily packaged soaps, creams, and perfumes are as tempting as the ancient bottles and fixtures are interesting.
 Tour Il Duomo, the Cathedral of Santa Maria del Fiore 
  Learn About the Construction of the Museo dell’Opera del Duomo  
 Visit the Baptistery 
 Climb the Campanile, Bell Tower 
 Explore Piazza della Signoria and Palazzo Vecchio 
 Walk Across Ponte Vecchio 
 Visit David at the Galleria dell' Academia 
 Take in Art History at Galleria degli Uffizi 
 Wander Through Boboli Garden and Pitti Palace 
 Walk the Halls of Santa Croce 
 Go Shopping Around Town 
 Take in the View at Piazzale Michelangelo 
  Piazza Santo Spirito  
  San Miniato al Monte Abbey  
 Learn in Peace at the National Museum of Bargello 
 Find Something Different at the Museo di San Marco 
 Dig Into the Museo Archeologico Nazionale di Firenze 
  Visit the Dead at the Medici Chapels (Cappelle Medicee)  
  Browse the San Lorenzo Market  
 Buy From the Officina Profumo 
If you're planning a trip to Florence, you're likely set on seeing some of its top attractions, including the iconic structures on Piazza del Duomo and the city's outstanding museums, such as the Uffizi Gallery and the Accademia, home of Michelangelo's "David."
But you should also take the time for a deeper dive into Florence, namely its charming and characteristic neighborhoods on either side of the Arno River. Fortunately for visitors, historic Florence is compact and mostly flat, so even if you stay outside the most touristy areas, you'll never be too long of a walk from the action. Whether you're looking for a neighborhood in which to base yourself while exploring the Renaissance city, seeking out-of-the-way attractions or to dine like a local, Florence has a neighborhood just for you.
Even if you choose not to base yourself in the very heart of Florence's historic center, you're bound to spend a lot of time here. Highlights include the Cattedrale di Santa Maria del Fiore, more succinctly referred to simply as the Duomo, the massive, domed cathedral that is the symbolic and geographic center of Florence. The streets running to the south-southwest of the Duomo are lined with expensive clothing stores, souvenir shops, gelaterias, and restaurants touting tourist menus (buyer beware). The area stretches to the Arno River and includes the Uffizi Gallery, the Piazza della Signoria, and the Ponte Vecchio Bridge. In other words, there's a lot to see here, but it's also crowded and its main streets can be noisy into the wee hours.
In this area, you'll find loads of hotels, but scan their websites carefully and read online reviews before booking. This is one of the most expensive parts of town in which to be based and in a lot of places, you'll pay for location rather than charm, comfort or amenities. We suggest straying a little farther afield for a hotel.
To the north and northwest of the Duomo, these two neighborhoods are slightly removed from the crowds but offer a bevy of attractions in their own right, including the San Lorenzo leather market, the Mercato Centrale food market, the San Lorenzo basilica with its Michelangelo sculptures, the Museum of San Marco and, most famously, the Galleria dell'Accademia, home of Michelangelo's "David."
There's more vehicular traffic on these streets, so visually, they're less charming than those nearer to the Duomo. But you'll find affordable restaurants where locals eat, as well as more budget-friendly hotels.
The immediate area surrounding Florence's main train station has little going for it in the looks department — the Fascist-era station sees traffic whizzing past day and night, and is ringed by mostly unattractive buildings housing cheap hotels, cheap take-out restaurants and cheap souvenir stands. A bright spot is the Basilica of Santa Maria Novella, a gorgeous 15th-century church packed with significant works of art.
Things improve as one moves west from the station towards the river, where a number of upscale hotels are sited. Whether in a budget hotel or a high-end one, you'll be close to the Duomo and Florence's other main sites. If you choose a hotel on one of the main avenues, especially Via Nazionale or Via Panzani, be sure to request a room away from the noisy street-side.
This area lying west-northwest of the Duomo is characterized by mostly quiet, residential streets and a few important churches, including the Santissima Annunziata, with its exquisite interior, and art-filled Sant'Ambrogio. Florence's national archaeological museum is also on this side of town.
The area is dotted with modest hotels and guesthouses, and simple restaurants favored by local residents. While on the map it might appear a bit of a hike from the city center, its farthest point is not more than 15 minutes on foot from Piazza del Duomo.
To the east of the Duomo and with a large frontage on the Arno River, Santa Croce is one of our favorite neighborhoods in Florence, in part because of its splendid Basilica di Santa Croce, the final resting place of Michelangelo, Galileo and Renaissance amoralist Niccolò Machiavelli. The basilica has a lively piazza out front: prime real estate for sitting down for a drink or a meal. The Bargello Museum, with its outstanding sculpture collection, lies on the western perimeter of the neighborhood.
The streets tucked behind the basilica have a decidedly local vibe and boast a lively nightlife scene. You'll also find hotels of all price ranges in this area. Near sunset hour, follow Via de'Benci towards the Arno and cross the Ponte alle Grazie for a dreamy view of Florence lit up at dusk.
Though it's no longer the "undiscovered" corner of Florence it once was, Santo Spirito, in the Oltrarno district across the Arno River still possesses an earthy authenticity and local character. At just a 12 minutes' walk from Piazza della Signoria via the Ponte Vecchio bridge, it's a best-bet for travelers who want to be out of the tourist fray, but still close to the historic center.
The action centers around lively Piazza Santo Spirito, where crowds from bars and restaurants spill out onto the piazza and impromptu street music concerts are not unheard of. There's great dining all over the neighborhood, and a range of hotels. A few luxury properties on the riverfront offer dizzyingly romantic views of the river and city skyline.
A medieval village amid the Renaissance perfection of Florence is a treat indeed, and San Niccolò delivers. The area is in the Oltrarno, so across the river and to the south and east of the historic center, but still an easy walk from the main sights. It's also the only part of Florence where you'll have to do any sort of climbing. If you want to see the lovely rose and iris gardens or Piazzale Michelangelo, with its sweeping views of the city and surrounding countryside, you have to do an easy, but steady, uphill walk. Those who climb a bit further are rewarded with one of Florence's true treasures — shimmering San Miniato al Monte, with its intricate marble exterior, frescoed interior and soaring wood-beam ceiling.
San Niccolò has mostly B&Bs and Airbnb-type properties and is a perfect choice if you want to experience Florence with a real locals' feel.
Anouchka / Getty Images
West of Santo Spirito, the San Frediano neighborhood is home to several important churches, including San Frediano in Cestello and Santa Maria del Carmine, with its famous fresco cycle. The streets in this smallish wedge of Oltrarno reveal artisan workshops, rustic trattorias, and hotels that are, for the most part, on the budget side. You might feel a little far afield in this quiet area, but you're still just a 20-minute walk from most of Florence's major sights.
If you're in Florence for a concert or a soccer match, or you just want to experience a slice of working-class Florence, head to Campo di Marte, site of the home stadium of the ACF Fiorentina soccer (football) team and the Nelson Mandela Forum, a sporting and events complex. The Campo di Marte train station is also here. You're a bit further afield from central Florence, though hotels to the west of the station are still an easy walk from the city center.
If you want a taste of the Tuscan countryside and are content to see Florence on day trips, Fiesole makes a great base, and also offers plenty of sites of its own. There are Etruscan and Roman archaeological sites, beautiful churches and convents to explore, plus great walking in the soft hills around the town. Several former villas have been turned into country hotels and offer swimming pools and green space — both of which are lacking in downtown Florence (which is only a 25-minute bus ride away).
  The Duomo & the Heart of Florence  
  San Lorenzo & San Marco  
  Santa Maria Novella  
  Annuziata/Sant'Ambrogio  
  Santa Croce  
  Santo Spirito  
  San Niccolò  
  San Freddiano  
  Campo di Marte  
  Fiesole  
One of the top cities to visit in Italy, Florence has a few worthwhile festivals to add to your itinerary. Here are highlights of what's happening each month in Florence. Click on the links below for details of these listings or to see more festivals and events. Make sure to check out the  National Holidays in Italy to see which dates are holidays in Florence and throughout the country.​
January starts on New Year's Day, an Italian holiday that's a quiet day after the late-night celebrations and on January 6, also a holiday, Epiphany and la Befana are celebrated with a parade in the city center.
Top events in February are a  chocolate fair and sometimes Carnevale, Italy's version of mardi gras, falls in this month and although Florence doesn't have a big celebration it does have a parade.
March 8 is Women's Day, the 17th is Saint Partick's Day, and the 19th is Saint Joseph's Day, also celebrated as Father's Day in Italy. Sometimes Carnevale falls in March and sometimes Easter falls near the end of the month but the biggest event is the Florentine New Year, celebrated on March 25.
Florence has an unusual Easter event, the Scoppio del Carro, or explosion of the cart, shown in the photo. Easter often falls in April although sometimes it's in March. April 25 is a holiday for Liberation Day and at the end of the month, there's usually a Notte Bianca with lots of special events and museum openings well into the night.
May 1 is a big holiday throughout the country for Labor Day and some museums, such as the Uffizi Gallery, are usually closed but there are special events and often lots of tourists in the city. Maggio Musicale Fiorentino is a big music festival and the month ends with a gelato festival.
June 2 is a national holiday for Republic Day. Florence celebrates the feast day of its patron saint, Saint John, with Calcio Storico, a historic soccer match played in Renaissance costume and fireworks. FirenzEstate summer arts and music festival takes place in June.
Florence's summer festival continues in July and there's a dance festival. Many festivals are held in towns near Florence during summer.
The traditional start of the Italian summer holidays is August 15, Ferragosto, and during this month most locals head to the sea or the mountains, leaving many shops and restaurants closed for vacation although in the tourist area many will remain open. Events for the summer festival continue in August.
One of Florence's biggest and most traditional festivals, the Festa della Rificolona or Festival of the Lanterns, is held September 7 and includes a lantern parade, boat parade, and a fair. Wine Town Firenze usually happens at the end of the month.
October is a nice time to visit Florence when the tourist crowds start to diminish and the heat of summer is over. The Amici della Musica classical music concert season starts in October and many nightclubs have parties for Halloween.
November 1 is All Saints' Day, a public holiday. The Florence marathon is held the last Sunday of the month.
The Christmas season starts December 8, a national holiday, and an art and food fair is usually held on this day. Throughout the month you'll find Christmas markets, including a popular German-style market, as well as Hanukkah events early in the month. December 25 and 26 are national holidays.
Editor's Note: This article has been updated and edited by Martha Bakerjian.
  Florence in January  
 Florence in February 
 Florence in March 
  Florence in April  
  Florence in May  
  Florence in June  
  Florence in July  
  Florence in August  
 Florence in September 
 Florence in October 
  Florence in November  
  Florence in December  

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Fodor's Florence & Tuscany: With Assisi and the Best of Umbria at Amazon
"Comprehensive guide to Florence and the surrounding regions of Tuscany and Umbria."
Wallpaper* City Guide Florence at Amazon
"Presents the best of what Florence has to offer."
Rick Steves Florence & Tuscany at Amazon
"Expect plenty of information of how to make the most of your trip."
Fodor’s Florence 25 Best at Amazon
"Expect a quick hit of the essential things to see in the Renaissance city."
Clued in Florence: The Concise and Opinionated Guide to the City (2019) at Amazon
"Sorts out the not-worth-it sites so you get to the good stuff faster."
LUXE Florence at Amazon
"Offers a comprehensive guide to the best of where to go out at night, get pampered, and shop."
A Comprehensive 5-Day Travel Guide to Florence + Tuscany at Amazon
"Specifically for those who don’t have a ton of time in the city."
FLORENCE: A Traveler's FunBook at Amazon
"A lifesaver when it comes to keeping kids entertained."
Amazon
Fodor’s is one of the biggest names in travel, and this comprehensive guide to Florence and the surrounding regions of Tuscany and Umbria is a major help for anyone planning a vacation to the region. Although it’s not specifically dedicated to Florence, we love this option for travelers who are planning a trip to the larger region, or who plan to stay in the city and use it as a base before taking off on day trips. Expect the options to fit a moderate budget, though there are suggestions for more budget activities, lodging, and dining, as well as options toward the luxury end of the scale. At 413 pages, the guide is pretty lengthy but still well laid-out and easy to use, so travelers in the midst of planning stages won’t get bogged down or overwhelmed by decisions. One note: as the guide was published in 2017, we suggest double-checking suggestions to ensure that information hasn’t changed.
Florence is a destination for art-lovers, and what better tour guide to have along than a book that emphasizes architecture and design? Wallpaper*’s guide to the city presents the best of what Florence has to offer, no matter how long your stay is. There are great suggestions for those in town for 48 hours as well as those in town for a week or longer. Expect advice on the best design-driven hotels, concept stores, and gorgeous bars and restaurants that transform a simple drink or meal into an experience. Don’t expect a lot of budget suggestions — places that make it into this tightly curated book tend to come at a price — but for travelers looking to splash out on a once-in-a-lifetime vacation, this guide will be perfect.
Chances are if you’re coming to Florence, you’re not going to leave without exploring the surrounding region of Tuscany at least a little, and this guide covers it all. Rick Steves has been one of the leading names in travel for decades now, so his Florence and Tuscany-focused volume doesn’t disappoint. Expect plenty of information of how to make the most of your trip, from top sights like the Uffizi Gallery and the Duomo to little-known spots that allow travelers to dine, drink, and shop like a local. The 400-odd pages are printed on thin paper, so you get all the information without the typical bulk of book that length. We love all the self-guided walking tours through the city, as well as the information on surrounding locales like Siena, Lucca, and Montepulciano — and after a busy day of sight-seeing, there’s plenty of suggestions for where you should kick back with a glass of wine.
Fodor’s is one of the leading resources for travelers wanting well-curated, comprehensive destination guides and this 25 Best edition for Florence is well worth the money. Expect a quick hit of the essential things to see in the Renaissance city, with overviews of the best dining, drinking, lodging, cultural activities, and shopping. It’s easy to flip through, which is a massive plus — this doesn’t require a long sit-down read (travel planning takes enough time, after all). We particularly like this list of essentials for those in town on business and those breezing through town on a trip that might only last a few days. Fodor’s isn’t known for budget travel, but the suggestions are still accessible enough for travelers who have a moderate budget. 
Full disclosure: This unique guide is only available on Kindle, but if you're traveling with an e-Reader anyway, it's a pretty perfect fit. Florence is a dense city, with a lot to see and do, and this guide sorts out the not-worth-it sites so you get to the good stuff faster. The guide is meant to make visitors fall in love with the city, and it does a great job, dishing out suggestions like a friend who just happens to be a travel expert. There’s also a ton of practical advice that might take time to figure out on your own, like suggestions on how to tip, Florence’s unique “opening hours,” and the best way to get from the airport to city center. And for those who want to get out of the city for a day,  suggestions for a day trip to Siena are also included in this handy manual. 
If your travel preferences lean toward the luxe, jet-setting end of the spectrum, you’re going to want to pick up a copy of this book for your next trip to Florence. The luxury-centered book offers a comprehensive guide to the best of where to eat, sleep, go out at night, get pampered, and do a little souvenir shopping in between. There’s a ton of information packed into this little volume, so read it carefully to catch all the tips and advice woven in. There’s also a free mobile download, so if you want to travel even lighter, you can.
This guide is designed specifically for those who don’t have a ton of time in the city, making it a wonderful resource for travelers who are coming through town on business or incorporating a stop into a larger weeks-long trip through Europe. The guide is laid out to fit many different types of travelers, from those with shoestring budgets to those with funds to throw down. There’s great information about local customs, local tour companies, and even the food you’ll find there, making this a great introduction to the city as well as a comprehensive resource once you’re past the planning stages and actually on the ground. Also, if you’ve always dreamed of being able to rattle off a bit of Italian, there are a few handy phrases tourists should know tucked in there too.
Flying all the way to Florence isn’t the easiest thing for kids — there’s lots of hurry-up-and-waiting and long flights with very little room to run around. This book is a lifesaver when it comes to keeping kids entertained; its 45 pages are packed full of crosswords, decoders, and word searches, as well as other games like spot-the-difference, bingo, and “Who Am I?” Best of all, the clues and answers for each puzzle are themed around Florence itself, so young travelers will start to learn about the city they’re off to visit before they even hit the ground. The book is slim enough to fit in purses and daypacks, making it easy to tote around while sightseeing. In fact, it's a great way to keep little ones occupied while waiting in line at museums, at restaurants, or on public transit. 
Our writers spent 2 hours researching the most popular Florence guidebooks on the market. Before making their final recommendations, they considered 20 different guidebooks, screened options from 15 different publishers, and read over 50 user reviews (both positive and negative). All of this research adds up to recommendations you can trust.

Our Top Picks 
  Fodor's Florence & Tuscany: with Assisi and the Best of Umbria  
  Wallpaper* City Guide Florence  
  Rick Steves Florence & Tuscany  
  Fodor’s Florence 25 Best  
  Clued In Florence: The Concise and Opinionated Guide to the City (2019)  
  LUXE Florence  
  A Comprehensive 5-Day Travel Guide to Florence + Tuscany  
  FLORENCE: A Traveler's FunBook  
  Our Process  
Florence is in the heart of Italy's Tuscany Region in western Italy along the Arno river. It is 145 miles north of Rome and 185 miles south of Milan. Florence is the capital of the region of Tuscany, and has a population of around 400,000 people, with around 300,000 more in suburban areas.
The narrow lanes of Renaissance Firenze are clogged with sweating tourists in July and August. Spring (April and May) or Autumn (September and October) are much better, although it's still tourist season. Tourists flock to Florence at Easter as well. November can be ok if you bring warm clothes and expect some rain.
Most folks would rather stay in the historic center to marvel at Florence's Renaissance architecture. A stay in the hills outside of Florence is also rewarding. We enjoyed our stay at Villa Le Piazzole, where a short and pleasant downhill walk into Florence takes you right to the Ponte Vecchio.
Read reviews of hotels in Florence on TripAdvisor.
Tuscan cuisine is world-renowned for simple combinations of absolutely fresh ingredients. Try the Florentine T-Bone bistecca alla fiorentina (but beware that it's listed on the menu priced per 100 grams--and this bistecca is usually huge). Tripe is also a specialty, as is the bread soup called ribollita. Tuscan starters include crostini and bruschetta, toasted bread with various toppings.
Best Breakfast: Cucciolo Bar Pasticceria. Known for its Bombolone, a sort of Tuscan doughnut that here is cooked and immediately send down a chute from the kitchen upstairs so that each one slides down to the front of the bar where you can grab one and chow down. Your breakfast bombolone doesn't get fresher than that.
Lunch in the Market If you can find your way through the jungle of leather coats and handbags in the Piazza di San Lorenzo marketplace, you'll see the old fashioned sign announcing Piero's favorite lunch spot: Trattoria Gozzi. "Simple Tuscan food, always packed," said Piero. He was right. On a late October day at almost 2 in the afternoon, we couldn't get in; there was at least a 45-minute wait. The Gozzi is only open for lunch. Get there early!
Drinks With a View at Biblioteca de le Oblate The Biblioteca de le Oblate is a former convent; the nuns here did the laundry for the adjacent hospital--you can see the washtubs downstairs. And there really is a historic library here. But the star of the show is the second-floor cafe with a view of the dome of the duomo.
ATAF and LI-NEA together maintain the city's public transportation system. Tickets and bus passes can be purchased at the ATAF ticket booth at Piazza Stazione (you can get a timetable of buses as well). You can buy a bus ticket at any tobacconist (indicated by a large "T" on a black sign on the outside of the shop) displaying an orange A.T.A.F. sticker on the door or window. All tickets must be time stamped using the machines on board the buses. Late night (9.00pm to 6.00am) tickets can usually be purchased from the bus driver.
Florence is served by taxi companies: Taxi Radio and Taxi Socota. Socota is the largest. You probably won't be able to hail a cab, you'd be better off finding a taxi stand or calling.
Florence has a website devoted to parking in the city. Click on "Parcheggiare" to get a map of parking lots. 
  When to Go  
  Where to Stay  
  Top Attractions  
  Food and Drink  
  Local Buses  
  Taxis  
  Parking  
Florence's Archaeological Museum - housed in a palace with great Egyptian and Etruscan collections. Via della Colonna, Admission less than 5 Euros.
Baptistry of John the Baptist - dates from the 11th century, with three sets of amazing bronze doors.
Il Duomo (Cattedrale de Santa Maria del Fiore) - The Florentine Gothic duomo was begun in 1296 and consecrated in 1436. Brunelleschi's Dome is a masterpiece of construction and you can climb the 463 stairs for great views of Florence. Piazza del Duomo. Entrance is free, but in summer you may have to wait in line to get in. Fees to see the excavations or go up into the cupola.
Uffizi Gallery - housed in a 1560 Medici palazzo, the recent renovations have meant that visitors don't have to wait outside and the galleries have expanded. There's a good view of Florence from the upper floors. Piazzale degli Uffizi 6, As of 2019, the price was 12 Euros to enter from November through February and 20 Euros from March through October. [Special note: If you're planning a trip to Florence between May and October, the Uffizi is the one attraction you should buy a ticket in advance for. Select Italy offers: Skip the Line: Uffizi Gallery Tickets.]
The Palazzo Vecchio or "Old Palace" is Florence's Romanesque town hall. A copy of Michelangelo's David attracts gawkers out front. This is another place where you'll want to book a tour in advance. Select Italy offers three very interesting tours: "the general Guided Tour offers an overview of the palace's most important rooms; the Secret Itineraries Tour opens doors that are usually closed to the public; and the Paint a Fresco Workshop teaches you how to make your very own fresco using techniques from the Middle Ages and Renaissance." See: Palazzo Vecchio Tours, Florence.
The Pitti Palace and Boboli Gardens. The palace encompasses several museums and holds paintings from some of Italy's most celebrated masters. The Renaissance gardens are a delight. Piazza Pitti, south of the Arno. Various entry fees.
The Ponte Vecchio - The Old Bridge looks from the outside as if it were still crowded with the crammed blacksmith and butcher shops of the medieval period, but it's all glittery gold and tourist baubles today. Spared from bombing in WWII, it used to be built of wood but a rebuild in the 1300s made it mostly stone. Free, unless you run afoul of a jewelry or porcelain statue salesman.
The Church of San Lorenzo - It's not impressive from the outside, but it's probably the oldest religious structure in Florence. They say it was probably founded before year 400 and its art holdings include stuff by Donatello and Bronzino.
Rome and Florence are two of Italy's top cities and travelers often visit both cities on the same trip. This information will help you easily get between these two cities.
Florence is 173 miles north of Rome. Frequent trains run directly between Rome Termini Station and Florence Santa Maria Novella Station (the main train stations for each city). Some frecce and regional trains also leave from Roma Tiburtina station.
You can check current Rome to Florence schedules and ticket prices on the Trenitalia website. However, people in the U.S. may find it easier and more convenient to buy tickets on raileurope.com.
Frecce trains are the fastest and most expensive, making the trip from Rome to Florence as short as one hour and thirty-one minutes. You'll need to reserve a seat on these trains. Less expensive regional trains take two to four hours and do not have reserved seats. Trains leave from early morning until about 9 PM, with several train choices per hour.
Italy's private high-speed rail line, Italo, also has fast trains between Rome's Ostiense and Tiburtina stations (not Termini) and Florence Santa Maria Novella Station. You can buy Italo train tickets in U.S. dollars online through Select Italy, too.
Local buses connect the train station to other parts of Florence and the outskirts of the city. Florence's historic center and main sights are an easy walk from the train station.
Although you don't need a car in Florence (and can't drive into the historic center), you may want to explore Tuscany by car. The A1 Autostrada (toll road) connects Rome to Florence. Car rentals are available in Florence if you prefer to take the train and pick up a car there later.
Florence has an airport with flights from other Italian cities, Europe, and Great Britain. The airport is fairly close to town and connected to the train station by bus.
  How to Get from Rome to Florence by Train  
  How to Get from Florence Train Station into Florence  
  How to Get from Rome to Florence by Car  
  Flying to Florence  
  Where to Stay in Florence:  
  Visiting Florence  
  Where to Stay in Rome:  
Top Rated Florence Center Hotels
Find more Florence Hotels on TripAdvisor
Top Florence Sights and Attractions
Florence Map showing train station and top Florence sights
Top Rated Rome Hotels
Find more Rome Hotels on TripAdvisor
While the crowds are still thick in October in Florence, Italy, temperatures cool down and days are much more pleasant compared to the heat of summer. Plus, there are still plenty of unique cultural celebrations and international festivals to attend in Florence this month including Santa Reparata and Fiera di San Luca. Whether you're looking to explore the city or you're hoping to take in a bit of local culture, October is a great time to plan a trip to Florence.
Temperatures fall over the course of October, starting with daily averages of 66 degrees Fahrenheit (19 degrees Celsius) and falling to an average of 57 F (14 C) by the end of the month. Fortunately, days are typically sunny and warm, with about seven hours of sunlight per day and temperatures remaining in the low 70s and high 60s for most of October.
Florence sees an average of 13 rainy days in October, accumulating around 2.5 inches (66 mm) of rainfall over the month. Winds remain relatively calm throughout the month, with wind speeds rarely reaching above 8 miles per hour.
Since temperatures tend to drop overnight—and throughout the month—it's best to bring various clothing articles that you can easily layer. Short and long-sleeved shirts, pants, and comfortable shoes are necessary, but you may also want to bring a sweater, light jacket, and a raincoat to better prepare for the weather in October.
While there are few blockbuster events on the October cultural calendar, there is an interesting mix of traditional festivals, contemporary art, and classical music. From exploring exhibits at a number of local institutions during First Sunday at the Museum to celebrating Halloween in the city, there are plenty of things to do in Florence in October.
  Florence Weather in October  
  What to Pack  
  October Events in Florence  
  October Travel Tips  
Average high: 70 degrees Fahrenheit (21 degrees Celsius)
Average low: 53 degrees Fahrenheit (12 degrees Celsius)
Sunday at the Museum: On the first Sunday of the month, state-run museums in Florence—including the Uffizi, the Galleria dell'Accademia, the Palazzo Pitti and Giardino di Boboli, the Bargello, the Medici Chapels, the archaeological museum, and several more—are free to everyone.
Feast of Santa Reparata: Named after a third-century martyr who's the co-patron saint of Florence, Santa Reparata takes place on October 8 each year and features family-style feasts across the city and a medieval procession from Piazza di Parte Guelfa to Santa Reperata's crypt in the Duomo of Florence.
Mostra Mercato Internazionale dell'Antiquariato: Also known as the Great Exhibition of Italian Art, this prestigious biennial fair takes place in late September or early October at Palazzo Corsini on odd-numbered years. The week-long event features antiques from around the world as well as a number of musical performances and galas.
Fiera di San Luca: Held about 20 minutes from Florence in Impruneta each October, this weeklong event is one of the oldest agricultural fairs in Europe and includes a livestock show and sale, agricultural demonstrations, traditional food samples, music performances, and terracotta artisans.
Amici della Musica: Starting in October, a full season of classical music concerts comes to Florence each year featuring musical artists from around the world performing almost every day of the month.
Florence Biennale: This biennial event—which takes place on odd-numbered years—brings together contemporary artists in visual arts, film, music, and performance for 10 days of exhibitions and events at venues across the city.
Festival delle Mongolfieri: This hot air balloon sees scores of the colorful, silent balloons soaring over the Florence cityscape. For a price, visitors can even take to the skies in a balloon. The event is held over two weekends in mid- to late October.
Halloween: Although Halloween is not really an Italian holiday, it's becoming quite popular in Florence, especially amongst young adults. You'll find Halloween costume parties in many of Florence's nightclubs, and there are even a few street festivals in neighborhoods across the city.
Flights and accommodations are typically cheaper toward the end of the month—including over Halloween weekend—as it's the start of the low season for tourism in Florence.
Rome and Venice are both easily accessible from Florence by plane, train, or bus. If you have more time in Italy during your trip, consider adding these cities to your itinerary for even more unique events and great weather.
While temperatures drop over the course of the month, October can still be fairly warm in Florence. When booking a hotel earlier in October, make sure your room has air conditioning if you need it to be cool in your room to sleep.
Taking a day trip from Florence gives the traveler a look at the countryside of Tuscany - picturesque hill towns, vineyards, and wineries, or the coast. A few places in nearby regions can also be easily visited.
Click on the links for more information about each place. Take a look at our Tuscany Rail Map to get an idea of locations.
Siena is a classic Tuscan medieval hill town and one of the most popular. It's a pretty town with a large fan-shaped piazza, beautiful cathedral (for a special treat, book a Gate of Heaven tour), pedestrian streets with shops, and the second highest medieval bell tower in Italy (with 505 steps to the top).
60 km south of Florence, Siena is accessible by either train or bus but the bus stops near the center while the train station is below town and you need to take a connecting bus to the center. 
Book tours of Siena through Viator.
TripSavvy / Jamie Ditaranto 
Pisa is famous for its leaning tower, beautiful Duomo, and Baptistery in Piazza dei Miracoli. It also has a good medieval center and a walk along the river so you could easily spend a full day there.
Pisa is easily reached by train or bus from Florence. Fast trains take 45 minutes while the less expensive regional trains take over an hour.
Book tours of Pisa through Viator.
Fiesole, in the hills above Florence, is an easy day trip. It's a great place to escape the summer heat and on clear days there are good views of the Florentine hills and even Florence. Fiesole has a good archeology park with a Roman amphitheater and Roman, Etruscan, and Longabard ruins. A bus runs from the Florence train station to Fiesole.
Lucca is a walled city with one of the best-preserved walls in Italy. Atop the walls are walking and bicycling paths and gardens, allowing you to walk completely around Lucca's historic center. Most of Lucca is flat so if you're tired of walking up hills, this is a good place to go. There are beautiful churches, good shopping, and several well-preserved towers from where you can get fabulous views of the city by climbing to the top. Enjoy this video of our walk around Lucca.
Frequent trains run between Florence and Lucca, taking a little over an hour. The train station is just outside the walls from where it's an easy walk to the center. 
Book a tour of Lucca through Viator.
San Gimignano is a small walled hill town known as the City of Beautiful Towers for its 14 surviving medieval towers. You can climb one of them for great views of the Tuscan countryside. There's an 11th-century duomo decorated with 14th-century frescoes, several museums, and a number of good restaurants serving typical Tuscan food.
To get to San Gimignano, take a bus or train from Florence to Poggibonsi. From Poggibonsi, there are frequent buses to San Gimignano, about a 20-minute ride.
Bologna, known for its great cuisine, is a beautiful city with two great squares, porticoed walkways, fine historic buildings, and an interesting medieval center with a tall medieval tower whose steep staircase you can climb for great views from the top. You can also take a cooking class, Passionate about Pasta, that starts with a market tour and ends with lunch.
Bologna can be reached by fast trains, taking 30 - 35 minutes and from the station, you can walk or take a bus to the center.
Book a city walking tour through Viator.
Montecatini Terme is a historic spa center with thermal waters, reminiscent of bygone days. It's a good place to walk, relax, visit a spa, or take the waters and enjoy music at the Liberty-style Terme Tettuccio. You can also take the charming funicular railway up the hill to the small medieval town of Montecatini Alto.
Inexpensive regional trains take less than an hour to get to Montecatini.
A good way to visit a couple of wineries and tour Tuscany is by taking a guided winery tour. Most of these winery tours include transportation with pick-up and drop-off at Florence hotels, wine tastings, and lunch.
The picturesque Chianti Classico wine region lies between Florence and Siena to the south. There are small wine towns, rolling hills covered with vineyards, and wineries that offer tasting. The area is best visited by car or on a tour, but you can get to the wine town of Greve by bus from Florence.
Book a half-day private wine tour through Viator.
This four-hour bucolic Tuscan tour from Florence includes wine and olive oil tastings. You'll visit a Renaissance villa and wine estate, as well as walk around the cellars and learn about the wines produced in this part of Italy.Book the biking tour through Viator.
The main city on Tuscany's Versilia Coast, Viareggio, can easily be reached from Florence by train. If you have a car you can explore other towns and beaches along the coast.
It's possible to visit the Cinque Terre from Florence but a little difficult to do on your own if you're traveling by public transportation. Viator offers a great day trip from Florence.
Book the day trip to Cinque Terre through Viator.
Here you'll find day trips from other top destinations including Rome, Venice, and the Amalfi Coast.
 Siena 
 Pisa 
 Fiesole 
 Lucca 
 San Gimignano 
 Bologna, Emilia Romagna City 
 Montecatini Terme 
 Winery Guided Tours 
 Chianti Wine Region 
 Biking Tours from Florence 
 Viareggio and the Versilia Coast of Tuscany 
 Cinque Terre Guided Day Trip from Florence 
 Day Trips from Other Italian Cities 
