A sparkling new hub for Turkish Airlines — which flies to upwards of 300 destinations globally, including nine cities across the US — Istanbul Airport has officially replaced Atatürk International Airport as the region’s primary international gateway and has the capacity to receive 90 million transit passengers annually. While the airport’s bright, airy and ultra-modern main terminal nears completion — all that remains are a few finishing touches — this is just the first of several phases slated for development over the next decade. By 2028, Istanbul Airport will have the capacity to accommodate some 200 million passengers annually via four terminals and six runways, making it the busiest airport in the world.
Although presently Istanbul Airport features just one main terminal for all arrivals, departures and transfers (which includes separate entrances and security for international and domestic flights) at more than 15 million square feet, it’s also one of the world’s largest terminal buildings. It is sprawling and lacks moving walkways or other transit infrastructure (e.g., shuttle busses or inter-concourse trams) to expedite transit across the length of the main building, which means it’s essential to allow ample time to transfer between gates in different concourses or to get to your gate from the main retail and dining hubs, also the location of all airline lounges.
Under the umbrella of iGA Pass Premium Experiences — which can be purchased online or through the airport’s app — the airport’s management company sells passes for single-use services including access to the iGA Lounge and iGA Buggy Service, which at a cost of 5 euros per adult (children and infants ride for free), is one of the only motorized ways to get around the terminal presently. Of course, special services are always available to passengers in need of extra assistance; contact your airline in advance of your travel dates to make arrangements, if necessary.
Savvy travelers will look forward to a layover or a little extra time on the ground at the new Istanbul Airport, which has plentiful opportunities for shopping and dining, including the world’s largest duty free retail zone, local specialty retailers and ample options to nosh on delicious local cuisine, whether in casual eateries, sit-down restaurants or the spacious new flagship lounges for Turkish Airlines. The airport also has a 24-hour airport hotel, Yotel Istanbul, which features both pre- and post-security entrances and can be booked hourly (with a minimum four hours) or overnight.
While the airport has a free public wifi network, it’s configured in a way that requires a code sent via SMS to activate. This essentially makes the network inaccessible for anyone traveling without cellular data, such as if your phone is in “airplane mode.” On the other hand, wi-fi is readily available in the lounges and within the airport hotel.
From U.S. chains such as Starbucks and Popeyes, to grab-and-go cafes, bakeries and eateries with a Turkish twist, to a sit-down grill restaurant and a cluster of casual dining concepts with notable chef names attached, Istanbul Airport has options to satiate every traveler and there are more openings to come.
Istanbul Airport is truly a shopping paradise. Highlights include:
As the global hub for Turkish Airlines, Istanbul Airport features some pretty fantastic lounge options that make smart use of the space above the sprawling retail and dining offerings at the heart of the new terminal.
  Istanbul Airport Code, Location and Contact Information  
  Istanbul Airport: Know Before You Go  
  A Note About Wi-Fi  
  What to Eat & Drink  
  Where to Shop  
  Istanbul Airport Lounges  
  Istanbul Airport Tips & Tidbits  
Istanbul Airport’s official IATA code is IST, a legacy from Atatürk International Airport. (Not to be confused with IST, the airport is managed by a Turkish company called iGA, which you’ll spot on the airport’s logo and signage in the terminal.)
Istanbul Airport is located in a rural district of Istanbul Province about 20 miles north of the city center. While there are plans to connect the airport to the city with a metro line (slated to open in 2020), presently only select bus services, taxis and other private transfers, such as those that may be arranged by your hotel, are available.
Taste of Anatolia is a collection of open-kitchen Turkish eateries where you can find anything from traditional mezze and hot entrees, to spit-roasted doner kebab sandwiches, to all varieties of cookies, baked goods and sweets, including gooey, cheesy künefe. The sit-down restaurant here offers a more leisurely dining experience and also features a full bar.
Outposts of Simit Sarayı serve Turkey’s namesake sesame-crusted bagels, called simits, with a variety of accompaniments in three locations throughout the airport.
At the far end of the terminal, upstairs from A and B concourses, Gourmet Trilogy features three chef-driven, fast-casual dining concepts including Vivanda Burger by Akrame Benallal, whose eponymous Paris restaurant boasts two Michelin stars, and outposts of Enzo Pizzeria and healthy eats cafe Gram from Istanbul chef and cookbook author, Didem Senol.
The world’s largest duty free retail zone, Unifree Duty Free, which is divided into nine concept areas covering nearly 600,000 square feet. You’ll find everything everything from fashion and accessories brands to beauty, home and electronics offerings. Samsonite, Tumi, Longchamp, and Herschel Supply are among the brands stocking travel gear and accessories.
Another prominent retail flagship is an outpost of Turkish designer concept shop Vakko, which has sections dedicated to home goods, business attire, cruise wear, accessories, gifts, scarves and even a confectionary selling its signature chocolate treats. Established Turkish makers are represented, as well. Keep an eye out for apparel and leather goods by Desa, handbags by Mehry Mu, timepieces and accessories by Saat & Saat, and Gilan baubles, among others.
For food goods, handicraft and other Turkish delights — yes, including those sweets of the same name — head for the Old Bazaar, which focuses on consumables and other locally-made items. (If the name sounds familiar, there was a similar offering at the previous airport.) From Turkish coffee and loose-leaf tea to ceramics and jewelry, the Old Bazaar is a reliable bet for picking up a few last-minute souvenirs or tastes of Turkey to bring home.
The Turkish Airlines Miles&Smiles Lounge and the Turkish Airlines Business Class Lounge are open air, meandering spaces of some 60,000 square feet each that collectively can accommodate up to 1,530 passengers, the major difference between the two being the clientele they serve. The Miles&Smiles Lounge is accessible to all Turkish Airlines and Star Alliance Business Class passengers, as well as Economy passengers with certain frequent flier status, while the Business Class Lounge is exclusively for Turkish Airlines and Star Alliance Business Class passengers traveling internationally.
Both lounges feature live cooking stations, snack stations, cold salad bars, self-serve bar, and beverage areas, as well as traditional Turkish coffee and tea self-service and plenty of sweet treats, including cakes, cookies, and assorted baklava.
Additional amenities include luggage storage, shower suites, designated television and relaxation areas, meeting rooms, and ample and varied seating for dining, working and simply lounging, depending on what you’re looking to accomplish with your time.
For the young (and young at heart) both lounges feature a designated children’s play area, a motorized race track, a gaming area, golf simulators, even an old-fashioned popcorn machine. The Business Class lounge also features a gallery space that’s curated by the Istanbul Modern Museum of Art.
Turkish Airlines Domestic Lounge is accessible to all Turkish Airlines Business Class passengers as well as Economy passengers with certain Miles&Smiles or Star Alliance frequent flier status and features many of the same amenities as the international lounges, just on a smaller scale. Note that the lounge is accessible from a special curbside entrance; check-in is handled once you’ve arrived inside.
The iGA Lounge serves all non-Star Alliance Business Class passengers. Day access can also be purchased online or at the entrance so long as space is available, which is hard to fathom it wouldn’t be as the lounge spans nearly 50,000 square feet. In addition to spacious seating areas there’s one main dining area, a bar area and several conference rooms. Currently, Priority Pass is not accepted.
Additional lounge offerings, including a Turkish Airlines Exclusive Lounge, a Turkish Airlines Arrival Lounge, and a dedicated SkyTeam Lounge, are still to come.
Have further questions? Istanbul Airport’s main information desk is conveniently located immediately after security screening for international passengers. Also look for staff with purple shirts that say “Ask Me / Bana Sorun.”
While Uber is available in Istanbul, the BiTaksi app is an equally popular option and is worth a download, to assist with transport around the city and to the airport from the city center.
Curious about spending a few days in Istanbul on your way to a further destination? Turkish Airlines offers a complimentary stopover program that includes free accommodation.
If you’ll be spending any time on the ground in Istanbul or Turkey, don’t forget to apply for a Turkish e-Visa in advance of your departure.
Among the world's largest cities in Muslim nations, the Turkey's biggest city, Istanbul (population 13.1 million), is easily the most accepting of gays and lesbians. That being said, Istanbul's GLBT community is still fairly discreet compared to other major cities in Europe, and despite successfully staging a Pride March since the mid-'90s, participants in the city's 2015 Istanbul Gay Pride Festival (Istanbul Onur Haftasi) on June 28 were attacked by police officers with pepper spray and water cannons. 
Now in its 14th year, Istanbul's Turkish Gay Pride week has quickly become a major event drawing thousands of participants, and despite the unfortunate events of last year, organizers have planned to come back in 2016 stronger than ever. Istanbul Gay Pride takes place this year from June 20 to June 26, 2016, and it consists of a variety of GLBT arts and cultural events, including films, health and political discussions, Bear Pride events, dance workshops, a picnic, and several parties and other gatherings.
Pride Week in Istanbul culminates on Sunday, June 26, with the Istanbul Gay Pride March, on İstiklal Caddesi Taksim (İstiklal Avenue), one of the most prominent and fashionable neighborhoods in the city. And although police attempted to put a damper on last year's celebration, it's safe to say that the resulting worldwide publicity from the Erdogan government's attempts at shutting down the event will only spur Istanbul LGBT activists to stage even bigger, louder, and more conspicuous Gay Pride march in 2016.
Last year, the marchers continued to rally and stand up for LGBT rights in Istanbul's central Taksim district during what's generally considered to be the largest Gay Pride event in a Muslim nation, despite the heavy-handed tactics of local government authorities. The strong-armed efforts to suppress Istanbul's Pride celebration last year appear directly related to efforts by conservative Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to gain favor with the country's far-right voters, but although attitudes throughout Turkey remain largely opposed to gay rights, Istanbul continues to cultivate a growing and increasingly visible LGBT community, and many in the nation's largest city - especially younger residents - are quite accepting of gays and lesbians. 
Istanbul Gay Resources
For more on the gay scene in Istanbul, check online resources, such as the Istanbul Gay Guide at IstanbulGay.com and the NightTours Gay Guide to Istanbul. For general travel information on visiting Istanbul, have a look at the visitor site produced by the country's official tourism organization, the Turkish Culture and Tourism Office.
If you're a spa lover going to Istanbul, you won't want to miss the city's famous baths, called hamams (or hammams in the West). These are not baths as you know them, but a series of rooms of various temperatures to stimulate circulation and the process of detoxification. The centerpiece of the experience is a very thorough body scrub (kese) with coarse mitts, a soapy cleanse with white, frothy bubbles (achieved when the attendant blows through a lacy bag, and a thorough dousing with buckets of warm water.  
This can be a DIY treatment, or you can use the services of an attendant. It's affordable, especially in the magnificent public baths of Istanbul like Cağaloğlu Hamam, but the services are briefer and less soothing than we are accustomed to in the West.
All you do is tell the receptionist what services you want and pay ahead of time. You get a cotton wrap (pestemal) and pair of wooden slippers (terlik), along with a key to your cubicle, where you remove your clothes and wrap yourself up sarong-style. (You might want to bring your own soap and shampoo, as it's expensive to buy in the public baths and not always great quality). Men and women are in the hamam on different days.
You enter a magnificent room, and after heating up for about 15 minutes on a heated marble platform (called a goebektas), you get thoroughly washed by one of the attendants in one of the bathing cubicles around the perimeter. You can stay here a while — heating up and dousing yourself with water to cool down — as long as you wish, and this is the true heart of the hammam experience. 
The oil massage takes place in a separate room and is both more vigorous and perfunctory than Westerners are used to, so you may want to skip it unless you are a true spa explorer. Afterward you are handed towels and taken to the cool room to cool down and drink orange juice or tea. 
​If this all sounds a bit too intense you can always have a hammam experience at a fine hotel, which specializes in meeting the expectations of high-end world travelers. There are also some couples-only options that break from tradition, but provide an otherwise authentic experience. 
Close to the massive dome and four minarets of Hagia Sophia (once the world's largest Christian church), Cağaloğlu Hamam was the last hamman to be built during the Ottoman Empire, in 1741, by Sultan Mahmud. By far the most spectacular of Istanbul's hammams, it is absolutely stunning and a must for spa pilgrims, or merely curious tourists. That said, some consider it a tourist trap, with so-so services and inflated prices. 
Tourists in search of an authentic hammam are the main customers here, but they are in good company: Florence Nightingale, Kaiser Wilhelm I and Tony Curtis are all said to have come here. 
As Cağaloğlu Hamam is near the Grand Bazaar, Blue Mosque and Topkapi Palace, it is a good place to refresh after a day of sightseeing and exploring. In the old days women and men had separate days to visit, but now it offers separate baths for men and women and a range of services. The Istanbul Dream which includes an exfoliating and washing is 50 euros. The Ottoman Luxury Service includes exfoliation, washing and 45-minute massage and costs 120 euros. Self-service treatment is 30 euros.
Some tourists complain that the treatments here are too rough and expensive, but you're not going to be able to scrub yourself with anywhere near the efficiency of the attendants, so go ahead and spring for it. It's an experience. 
Built by the famous architect Mimar Sinan in 1584, this is a classic hamam experience. The bath was established by Nurbanu Sultan, wife of Selim II and mother of Murat III, for the purpose of bringing in revenue to support the Valide-i Atik Charity Complex in Toptasi, Üsküdar. According to the Tuhfet’ül-mi’mârin(1), the bath is one of the structures built by the architect Sinan, in 1584.
There won’t be too many times in your life when you’ll get the opportunity to have a Turkish bath in a building dating back to 1584, so now might well be the time to do it – particularly as this twin hamam was designed by the great architect Sinan and is among the most beautiful in the city.
The building was commissioned by Nurbanu Sultan, wife of Selim II and mother of Murat III. Both of its bath chambers have a huge marble sıcaklık (circular marble heat platform) and a gorgeous dome with glass apertures. The camekan (entrance hall) for men is original, but the women's version is new.
It costs extra to add an oil massage to the standard bath package, but all massages and treatments here are perfunctory, so we'd suggest giving this a miss and opting for the cheaper self-serve option. Tips are meant to be covered in the treatment price and there’s a 20% discount for ISIC student-card holders.
Those who would like a hamam experience with a higher luxury quotient can experience at The SPA at Four Seasons Hotel at the Bosphorus. It has an elegant Turkish hammam, complete with heated marble slab and dreamy lighting, to enjoy privately or with friends, family or a partner. You do have to make some adaptations, like coming early for time in the sauna and steam bath, to warm up before getting your treatment in the actual hammam.
It's also quite a bit more expensive: 120 euros for the scrub (30-minutes); 155 euros for the scrub and foam massage (45 minutes); and 185 euros for the scrub, foam massage and body mask (60 minutes). Add on a 60-minute massage of your choice afterward, and you're up to 265 euros. What you do get is atmosphere and service a bit more in keeping with Western expectations and genteel sensibilities. 
The menu includes Swedish massage, Thai massage, hot stone massage and a number of Ayurvedic treatments, along with Western facials and body treatments. And (of course) there's a fitness studio, with classes in yoga and TRX, personal training sessions and a Pilates reformer. 
Once home to sultans, the Çırağan Palace Kempinski İstanbul was built right in 1871 on the Bosphorus (not a river, but a narrow sea channel) and has been the city's most iconic luxury hotel since 1991. A pinnacle of Turkish elegance, the opulent hotel  with 282 rooms and 31 suites can be reached by yacht, helicopter and limousine. 
Çırağan Palace Kempinski Spa is absolutely gorgeous, and offers an authentic Turkish bath. Here, the combination of exfoliation with a mitt and cleansing with frothy soap is called the Pasha; it lasts 40 minutes and costs 135 euros. Add a 15-minute massage with aromatic oils and circular massage movements (with particular attention paid to the scalp, hands and feet) and it's the Sherazad treatment, which costs 165 euros for 55 minutes.
Along with several Ayurvedic therapies, the spa has an array of international massages— Thai, lomi-lomi, shiatsu — along with anti-aging facials and yummy body treatments. The Coffee Peeling uses a blend of granulated Turkish coffee and a blend of aromatic oils to remove dead skin and stimulate circulation. (It is also a good cellulite treatment.)
The hotel also has an indoor swimming pool, sauna and steam rooms, whirlpool, fitness center, and a makeup room. A favorite is the heated, outdoor, infinity pool.
Purists are more enthusiastic about this meticulously restored twin hamam, which dates to 1556 and offers the most luxurious traditional bath experience in the Old City. Designed by Mimar Sinan, it was built by order of Süleyman the Magnificent and named in honour of his wife Hürrem Sultan.
After a $13 million restoration, it reopened in 2011 to great applause. It retains Sinan's original design but endows it with an understated modern luxury. There are the traditional separate baths for males and females, and both have a handsome soğukluk (entrance vestibule) surrounded by wooden change cubicles.
 The basic 30-minute scrub and soap massage treatment, given expertly, costs 55 euros and includes olive-oil soap and a personal kese. In warm weather, a cafe and restaurant operate on the outdoor terrace.
If you're traveling as a couple, and want to visit a hammam together, this is the place for you. Hammams are usually segregated by gender, but this one welcomes couples and families — only. If you are a single man or woman, you will be turned away. (And even groups and couples must make reservations in advance.)
Built in 1557, Suleiman the magnificent commissioned this bath. Its architect is Mimar Sinan, the same architect who built Çemberlitaş Hamam in 1584.  This is one of the more affordable options. The self-service option, which includes lockable changing rooms, peştemal for men or bra and shorts for women, wooden slippers and access to the hammam is 40 euros and includes kese, and a soap massage.
Said to be the first Turkish bath in Istanbul, Aga Hamami was originally built in 1454 as part of a hunting lodge for Mehmed the Conqueror.  It underwent a large-scale renovation in 1844 by Abdulmecid (the 31st Ottoman Padishah) and was used until the final years of the Ottoman Empire, after which it was open to the public.
Today it serves the tourist market and couples in a mixed setting. It's extremely relaxed, and another bargain: 15 euros for entrance; with massage, it's 30 euros; add a facial mask and you're up to 34 euros. 
A glass high-rise, this hotel may lack in traditional Turkish atmosphere but it has all the fine service you expect from a Ritz Carlton — plus great views of the Bosphorus. The spa features two traditional Turkish Hammam for men and women separately, as well as a Couples Hammam Suite. 
Guests can also enjoy the 60-foot indoor pool with its twinkling ceiling, Jacuzzi, sauna, steam room and fitness center.
This is the most western-style spa, and it doesn't have the large and lovely traditional Turkish hammam of the other bathhouses and spas mentioned here. However, The Spa at Park Hyatt Istanbul Maçka Palas does adapt the traditional hammam ritual to take place in one of five individual spa suites, which include a Turkish bath complete with a heated stone seat and a private steam room. This is a treatment that can be experience alone, or as a couple. 
First, you warm up in the steam room or in a hydrotherapy bath scented with Turkish rose. Next up is the kese (scrub), then the foam massage with a lovely rose soap. It's all followed with a little rest and herbal tea. The Turkish Hammam Delight is a 2 hour treatment that costs 600 Turkish lira, or around $165. 
Additional features of The Spa include two treatment rooms, male and female locker rooms, a sauna, relaxation lounge, juice bar, an open air pool, and a fully equipped gym. 
And if you have had your fill of kese and foam massages by now, there's a menu of western massage, facials and body treatments to keep you busy. 
  Cağaloğlu Hamami  
 Çemberlitaş Hamami 
 The SPA at Four Seasons on the Bosphorus 
 Çırağan Palace Kempinski Istanbul 
  Ayasofya Hürrem Sultan Hamamı  
 Süleymaniye Hamam 
 Aga Hamami 
 Ritz-Carlton Istanbul 
 The Spa at Park Hyatt Istanbul - Macka Palas 

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Best Overall: White House Hotel Istanbul — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Flawless service and welcoming atmosphere."
Best Budget: Hotel Niles — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Despite its five-star location, Hotel Niles is incredibly well-priced."
Best Boutique: Hotel Ibrahim Pasha — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Curl up with a good book by the fireplace in the library or head up to the rooftop terrace for spectacular views."
Best Family: Sultanahmet Suites — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Standard suites include a master bedroom with two beds, a separate living room and a dining area."
Best for Romance: Hotel Empress Zoe — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"The decor blends natural elements of wood and stone with original Islamic artwork."
Best Luxury: Raffles Istanbul — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"There’s an open-air movie theatre on the rooftop, as well as indoor and outdoor swimming pools."
Best for Nightlife: The Marmara Pera Hotel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Steps from the pubs, bars, restaurants and entertainment venues of the city’s famous Istiklal Street."
Best for Business: Wyndham Grand Istanbul Levent — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"23 meeting rooms with space for up to 1,200 delegates."
Best Hostel: Cheers Hostel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Varied room choices range from multiple-bed dormitories to private double, triple and family rooms."
Courtesy of White House Hotel
 
The White House Hotel has topped TripAdvisor’s list of Istanbul hotels in recent years. Its charms are manifold, but guests especially love this four-star option for its flawless service and welcoming atmosphere. Located in the heart of the Old City, the hotel is a five-minute walk from the iconic Hagia Sophia Museum. Like the city itself, it seamlessly blends East and West with a Roman-style façade and luxurious Ottoman decor. In each of the hotel’s 22 rooms, expect ornate wallpaper, authentic furniture and a soft cream, peach, and gold color scheme.
In-room amenities include free high-speed Wi-Fi, an LCD TV, and a minibar. The hotel’s undisputed highlight, however, is the rooftop garden. It offers indoor and outdoor seating with breathtaking views of Hagia Sophia, the Blue Mosque, and the Bosphorus. Here, you’ll enjoy a generous breakfast buffet and unforgettable sunset views each evening. Although The White House doesn’t have its own restaurant, there are plenty of excellent options nearby. Room service is available around the clock.
Courtesy of Hotel Niles
 
Hotel Niles is a five-minute stroll from the hustle and bustle of the famous Grand Bazaar. In fact, many of the Old City’s top attractions are within easy walking distance (allowing you to save on public transport). Despite its five-star location, Hotel Niles is incredibly well-priced. Inside, fall in love with 19th-century Turkish decor ranging from rich rugs to sparkling chandeliers. Choose a room, suite or newly renovated maisonette, all of which include air-conditioning, satellite TV and free toiletries.
Although the contemporary single and double rooms are the cheapest, hotel freebies such as Wi-Fi and breakfast may leave you with enough money to splurge on an atmospheric Ottoman suite. Breakfast is served on the rooftop terrace, which boasts beautiful Sea of Marmara views. The hotel is known for its authentic Turkish staples (think apple tea, local cheeses, yoghurt and olives). Other public spaces include an exercise room and a lounge adorned with oil paintings and cozy upholstered furniture. 
Courtesy of Hotel Ibrahim Pasha
Another top choice in the historic Sultanahmet district, Hotel Ibrahim Pasha consists of a pair of 20th-century townhouses built in the shadow of the Blue Mosque. Expect contemporary decor imbued with subtle Turkish flair and enhanced by exemplary personalized service. The hotel has 24 rooms, all of which include satellite TV and an ensuite bathroom with a rain shower and Molton Brown amenities. Under-floor heating is particularly welcome in winter.
For a little extra space, choose a Deluxe Room with a charming separate seating area. A free Turkish breakfast buffet is served in the cozy lobby, and while there’s no restaurant on-site, the knowledgeable concierge can advise on worthwhile dinner destinations in the immediate area. Curl up with a good book by the fireplace in the library or head up to the rooftop terrace for spectacular views of the illuminated Blue Mosque at night.
Courtesy of Sultanahmet Suites
Perfect for self-sufficient families, Sultanahmet Suites comprises 11 apartments spread out across four properties located within a few minutes’ walk of each other in the atmospheric historic quarter. Top Istanbul sights such as the Hagia Sophia and the Grand Bazaar are within easy reach - even for little legs. Standard suites include a master bedroom with two beds, a separate living room and a dining area, all adorned with colorful Turkish rugs.
Free Wi-Fi keeps older kids entertained, while modern kitchens allow you to save money by self-catering. For larger families, connecting suites are available. When you don’t feel like cooking, Café Sfendon serves simple meals to satisfy all tastes. The hotel’s 24-hour management can arrange laundry, grocery shopping and airport transfers, plus there’s ample parking on-site. Mom and Dad can even stay in shape in the hotel exercise room.
Courtesy of Hotel Empress Zoe
 
Nestled between the Bosphorus and the Blue Mosque, Hotel Empress Zoe is steeped in Istanbul history. Its picturesque wisteria-covered townhouses overlook the ruins of a 15th-century bath house. Inside, the decor blends natural elements of wood and stone with original Islamic artwork. There are 25 impeccably designed rooms and suites, all of them with Internet and central heating for cozy winter stays.
For special occasions, splash out on the Penthouse Suite. Here, you’ll find a luxurious Double bed, a marble hammam bath and a private terrace with impossibly romantic Blue Mosque views. Free breakfast is served in the garden amidst fountains, flowers and ancient architecture. The rooftop terraces offer Sea of Marmara panoramas and in the evening drinks are served in the garden or inside by the fireplace.
Courtesy of Raffles Istanbul
Raffles Istanbul is located next to designer shopping and Zorlu Center (an upscale dining destination) on the European side of Istanbul. Expect modern architecture, contemporary artwork and some of the largest rooms in the city. For the most luxurious stay, book the two-bedroom Raffles Suite. Privileges include a private terrace with jaw-dropping Bosphorus views, a helicopter or private yacht tour and private Chef’s Table dining.
The hotel has an impressive choice of bars and restaurants, including Rocca (known for its contemporary Turkish cuisine); and Isokyo, a "social dining experience" that features an interactive menu. There’s an open-air movie theatre on the rooftop, as well as indoor and outdoor swimming pools. Raffles Spa offers indulgent Turkish baths and massages. A heated heliport, chauffeur car service and 24-hour Raffles Butlers complete your five-star experience.
Courtesy of The Marmara Pera Hotel
Located on the European side in cosmopolitan Pera, The Marmara Pera Hotel is a few steps from the pubs, bars, restaurants and entertainment venues of the city’s famous Istiklal Street. Start the evening’s festivities at Mikla, the hotel’s signature rooftop restaurant. Here, you can savor celebrated Anatolian cuisine while sipping fashionable cocktails and admiring beautiful Golden Horn vistas. In winter, the party moves downstairs to Café Marmara, a cozy spot for fine wines and a la carte meals. Rooms and suites offer key pre-party ingredients (like a minibar and an iPod dock), while free Wi-Fi, a 32” TV and a comfy king bed make post-party recovery a little easier. Other amenities include a health club and a heated rooftop pool. 
Courtesy of Wyndham Grand Istanbul Levent
For a convenient location in one of Istanbul’s busiest commercial centers, choose Wyndham Grand Istanbul Levent. The hotel has 23 meeting rooms with space for up to 1,200 delegates. Upgrade to a room with Executive Lounge access and enjoy free refreshments in a sophisticated private space perfect for working or connecting with colleagues. All rooms guarantee a good night’s sleep with black-out curtains and a goose down duvet. Best of all, Wi-Fi is fast and free. There are several bars and restaurants, while an outdoor pool and full spa allow you to unwind between meetings.
Courtesy of Cheers Hostel
Warm and welcoming Cheers Hostel provides an affordable option for backpackers near Hagia Sophia and historical Gülhane Park. The hostel’s varied room choices range from multiple-bed dormitories to private double, triple and family rooms. You’ll benefit from heating and air-conditioning, while linens and towels are included. Bathroom facilities are shared, but breakfast is complimentary and free Wi-Fi is available in the cozy communal lounge. Wintergarden Panoramic Terrace Bar is a highlight, with great city views, an atmospheric fireplace and a bar for self-mixed cocktails in the evenings. 
  Best Overall: White House Hotel Istanbul  
  Best Budget: Hotel Niles  
  Best Boutique: Hotel Ibrahim Pasha  
  Best Family: Sultanahmet Suites  
  Best for Romance: Hotel Empress Zoe  
  Best Luxury: Raffles Istanbul  
  Best for Nightlife: The Marmara Pera Hotel  
  Best for Business: Wyndham Grand Istanbul Levent  
  Best Hostel: Cheers Hostel  
The Azamara Journey has a lot of great features--size, cuisine, service, and destinations. I sailed the Aegean Sea on this wonderful cruise ship between Athens and Istanbul and learned exactly what Azamara Club Cruises was talking about when they say the company's objective is "destination immersion". Two of the examples of this immersion included cooking (and eating) Turkish food in a country house near Kusadasi and meeting one of Patmos' oldest residents in the home that had been in her family for eight generations. We had long days in four ports of call and an overnight stay in Istanbul before sadly ending this amazing Azamara cruise.
This cruise travel log provides details of our Azamara Journey cruise.
Many cruises embark in Athens, and travelers should plan to arrive at least a day early to see some of the major attractions and taste some marvelous Greek food. My friend and I arrived a day early in Athens and had time to tour the Acropolis Museum and see the changing of the guards at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Syntagma Square. We also took my own advice and strolled the old town of Athens, checking out the farmer's market, shops, and tavernas.
About noon, we left our hotel in downtown Athens and were on the Azamara Journey cruise ship in Piraeus before 1:30. Since the cabins wouldn't be ready for a short time, we went up to the Windows Cafe for a buffet lunch of sushi, Pad Thai noodles, and grilled salmon. Very nice buffet. Ice cream (of course) with hot fudge topping for dessert. Azamara has drinks included, so we both had a couple of glasses of the "wine of the day", which was a Spanish white wine.
After unpacking, we went out on the deck and watched as the Azamara Journey slipped quietly away from the pier at Piraeus. I always love to get settled in for the week, and unpacking only once is one of the unique features of cruise travel. We had dinner at Aqualina, one of the two specialty restaurants on the Azamara Journey. As the name suggests, it's mostly a fish place. However, I started with beef carpaccio, followed by a watermelon/tomato salad, grilled garlic shrimp with saffron rice, and a limoncello souffle. Claire had an ahi tuna appetizer, pine nut salad with blue cheese, bacon, eggs, and greens; Dover sole, and tiramisu for dessert. Aqualina is at the far aft of the ship and has huge windows overlooking the stern, providing us a spectacular sunset view.
The next morning, the Azamara Journey arrived at the Greek island of Santorini, one of the most spectacular islands in the world.
Early on the first morning of our Azamara Journey cruise, the ship pulled into the ancient volcanic caldera of Santorini about 8 am, but we could see the tall cliffs long before we got there. This volcanic island exploded about 1650 BC in one of the largest eruptions in recorded history.
Azamara had three nice shore excursion options for Santorini. The advantage of a shore excursion is that a special tender takes participants to the port of Athinios where buses then take them on the tours, thereby avoiding the long lines at the cable car. The first excursion was a bus ride across the island, with stops for walking tours at Oia, Fira, and a local winery. The second was a visit to the Akrotiri archaeological site, which was buried in the volcanic eruption that gave the island its distinct look. The third shore excursion was a walking tour of the village of Pyrgos. followed by mezes in a local taverna. Since I have been to Santorini several times, we decided to just explore on our own, using the cable car and public bus system.
Our ship was staying in Santorini until 10 pm and we didn't have a shore excursion, so didn't rush ashore. At least five other cruise ships were floating around in the caldera, which is way too deep for them to anchor. The ships have to run their engines to maintain a position--kind of like treading water.
Most everyone had gone to shore by about 10:30, so we boarded the tender to take us to the small port of Fira Skala where the cable car goes up to the town of Fira, which is the capital of the Santorini island group and on the main island Thira, which most of us call Santorini. It was a pleasant surprise--no line at the cable car. 
We walked through Fira, avoiding the jewelry and clothing stores. Never a good idea to buy something on the outbound trip. The bus station is on the opposite side of the town, but not difficult to find with a map. The first few streets in Fira are narrow and pedestrian only, so buses park on the edge of town at the station, which is near the post office. The public bus to Oia is a great deal and runs frequently. It's only 1.60 euros each, and a fee collector collects your fare while the bus is moving. Glad to know you don't even need exact change--just euros. The weather was hot (at least 100) and very calm--we were drenched by the time we even got to the bus. Fortunately it was a (slightly) air conditioned bus. The Oia bus stop is just down the hill from its main square and easy to find for the return trip to Fira.
Claire and I walked around the scenic town of Oia, lingering in front of almost every open doorway whose cool air was pouring out into the street. After an hour or so, we found a small cafe with an amazing view and split a Greek salad and the house special of a "Greek hamburger", which was actually kind of like a meatloaf except for the seasoning. It was delicious.
We rode the bus back to Fira--didn't even have to wait on it since it was boarding when we got to the bus stop. We got the last two seats, but they were in the back and the air conditioner kept dripping on us. Although we figured the water was filthy and probably filled with Legionnaire's disease or something, the cold water felt good and we were already soaked with sweat. We strolled around Fira for a while (bought postcards) before heading back to the cable car station. Voila!! No line yet again. Back on the Azamara Journey (and its marvelous air conditioned space) by 4 pm. Took showers and went for a drink before meeting our group to head back ashore for dinner in Pyrgos, a tiny inland village on Santorini.
Azamara Club Cruises has a "think global, eat local" program where guests can go ashore and eat in a restaurant that locals would frequent. The shore excursion staff arranges these dinners. Most of the dinner group met onboard and had a small van take us to the restaurant (some took a taxi from Fira and met us at the restaurant).
We ate at an outdoor cafe called Kallisti Taverna in the tiny town of Pyrgos, which is in the interior of the island. It has narrow hilly streets, but is not as touristy as Fira or Oia. The meal was very good, but I think I've had better "authentic Greek" dinners. We started with several mezzes (appetizers), many of which were made with tomatoes, which was fine with me, but others in the group could have used more variety. Several at the table loved one made from white aubergine (eggplant). The main dish was lamb chops, and we had a baklava-type dessert. I loved having the local Santorini wine.
The best part of the meal was the camraderie and fun we had with our dining companions. I'm sure others from the ship took the opportunity to watch the Santorini sunset. It's an excellent idea to extend time at some of these islands that offer good restaurants, nightlife, and sunsets.
Back to the Azamara Journey by 9:45 so we could sail by 10 or so. Nice day in Santorini.
The cruise ship was at Mykonos the next day.
The next morning the Azamara Journey arrived in Mykonos about 8:00 am. The ship docked rathered than tendered, and we had a free shuttle bus to take us from the port to Mykonos town. The weather was still hot, but very windy, with winds up to about 34 mph. My friend and I had signed up for a shore excursion tour to the sacred island of Delos, so we were up early since we had to be in the lounge to meet up with our tour at 8:15. The ship had two other organized shore excursions. The first was a bus transfer to one of the island's many beaches. The second was a driving tour of the island with a stop at at 16th century monastery. We chose Delos because my friend had not been before and also because the Azamara Journey was staying late in Mykonos, so we would have plenty of time in the town to shop and explore after our half-day excursion.
We met up with our guide Constantine on the pier and rode a shuttle bus to the town of Mykonos. It's mostly a pedestrian town, so we had to walk along the harbor to the opposite side to catch our small boat to Delos. There were about 15-20 in our group, but we shared the boat with 2 other similarly-sized groups along with several people who were going to Delos on their own.
Anyway, we arrived at Delos about 9:30 am (about a 45 minute boat ride) and started walking around the site. Delos was once considered the center of the universe by Greeks since it was the celebrated birthplace of the God Apollo. The entire island is uninhabited (except for some visiting archaeologists who stay in tiny houses), and is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. French archaeologists first started excavating Delos in 1873, but only about 10 percent of the ruins have been excavated--lots more work to do, but not enough money to keep the digging going.
Some of the ruins date back to 1650 BC, but most seem to be in the 500-400 BC era. The island is very windy (like nearby Mykonos), so most relics have been moved either to the archaeological museum on Delos or the National Archaeological Museum in Athens.
We walked around the site with our guide Constantine, and he pointed out buildings in the commercial area, the 6500 seat outdoor theater, and some of the homes of the wealthy, with their mosaic courtyards. He then led us to the religious side of the town, but most of the temples/monuments have been destroyed. Many of the buildings on Delos were built of marble, and looters over the centuries have robbed anything worth keeping that wasn't buried. After touring the site for about two hours, we had about 30 minutes to tour the small museum before heading back to Mykonos.
Back on Mykonos by about 1 pm, Claire and I went back to the ship to get refreshed and have lunch. The Azamara Journey culinary staff had some delicious salads and some yummy chicken wraps that we both enjoyed along with wine. Then we rested a little before taking the transfer bus back into Mykonos around 4 pm.
The Azamara Journey was the only ship in town, and I don't think I've ever seen the streets so quiet! It was really enjoyable to walk the narrow streets and get lost over and over, but see few people. We could appreciate the interesting architecture without having to dodge other tourists. A really nice afternoon. We thought about staying in town and watching the sunset, but decided to watch it from the ship and went to dinner in the Discoveries Restaurant for the first time.
We got lucky with our table mates and with the sunset. We ended up at a table for 8 by the window and sat with 2 married couples about our age--one from Belfast, Northern Ireland, and the other from somewhere in England. We were also joined by two women who were each traveling solo--one from Australia and the other from Tampa, FL. They had met on a previous Azamara cruise and just happened to be on this one. The horizon was covered by clouds, so we didn't miss much by returning to the ship and not being at the Mykonos windmills to watch it set.
We all hit it off and had a fun time. I had spring roll, cold tomato soup, and grilled salmon with grilled veggies (gave the grilled eggplant to friend Claire). Claire had the spring roll, cold tomato soup, and a medallion of pork and one of veal.
After dinner, our table adjourned to the Mosaic coffee bar for cappucino (Claire) and ice water for me. The couple from Belfast) had told the hotel director the night before that they liked to have a scone or biscuit before going to bed. While we are sitting in the coffee bar, one of the chefs from the galley appears with a whole plate full of scones, along with some clotted cream, butter, and jam. Very nice touch and excellent customer service.
Back to the cabin by 11 pm and asleep before midnight. The Azamara Journey sailed about 10 pm for the Greek island of Patmos, where St. John wrote the Book of Revelation.
The next day the Azamara Journey was on the charming island of Patmos, which is one of the Dodecanese islands of Greece. These 12 islands are closer to Turkey than to mainland Greece, so they've been more influenced by the Turks and also more subject to invasions by pirates in the 17th century and forward.
This tiny island does not have an airport, but does have ferry service. Not many cruise ships visit since they have to anchor in the harbor and use tenders. The island only has 3,000 residents in about four villages. Patmos is famous because John the Theologian (also known as John the Divine or John the Disciple) was exiled to Patmos from Ephesus in AD 95 and spent about 18 months on the island before his exile was lifted. During that time he lived in a cave (he wasn't imprisoned) and wrote (or dictated to his assistant since he was very old) the last book of the Bible, Revelation.
Patmos is a popular pilgrimage spot for both the western and Orthodox Christians. People visit the Cave of the Apocalypse that is celebrated as the spot where God delivered the Revelation to John. It now is a chapel, and you have to walk down 40 steep steps to get there. We didn't visit it this time since I've been a couple of times before. Pilgrims don't have to look far for a place to worship since the island has about 1000 chapels and churches. According to the local guidebook, based on its population and size, it has the "most churches and monasteries than any other place in the world."
Azamara had four shore excursion tours on Patmos. The first was a visit to Patmos' most famous monastery called St. John the Theologian Monastery, which was founded in the 11th century and built a massive fortress on the top of a Patmos mountain in the village of Hora (also spelled Chora). Azamara St. John is the monastery that can be seen from the harbor and where most of the tours visit. This tour also included a walk around Hora, a visit to one of the historic homes, and a stop for mezes.
The second tour also visited the Monastery of St. John, but also toured the Cave of the Apocalypse and a drive around the island for panoramic views. The third tour was a bus transfer to one of Patmos' best beaches, Kambos Beach.
Since I had been to the Monastery of St. John and the Cave of the Apocalyse, we took an Azamara Journey "Insider Access Series" tour entitled, "Daily Life at the Monastery".  The use of the term "monastery" was a little odd at first since we visited the Convent of Evangelismos, not a Monastery. The local (free) guidebook I picked up at the Tourism Bureau calls it the Holy Monastery of the Nuns of the Annunciation. I think you can see the confusion, and it's important for those choosing this tour to know that they will not be visiting the huge monastery at Chora. The "Insider Access" tours are smaller groups and visit places that are less touristy and provide a closer look at local lives.
We thoroughly enjoyed the drive from the town of Skala (where the tender dropped us off) to the southwest part of the island, where the Holy Monastery of the Nuns of the Annunciation (also called the Convent of Evangelismos) located. It sits on a lovely piece of land overlooking the ocean. This convent/monastery was first built in 1613 by a monk named Nikeforos. The convent was renovated many times, with the most recent being 1937.
The Greek Orthodox Church of the Evangelism, which is on the convent grounds, honors St. Loukas (Luke). A chapel honoring St. Anthony is also on the grounds. The 40 nuns at the convent spend their time doing gardening, community service, beekeeping, and Byzantine embroidery called spitha (sparkle). This embroidery is very delicate and fine and is 2-sided with no knots. I didn't even ask how much a piece was in the gift shop since I thought it would be very expensive. One of the nuns who died a few years ago was named Olympia. This Sister was a student of the famous Greek iconographer Fotis Kontoglou. She painted many of the figures/icons in the church and also instructed many of the nuns on the painting techniques/style so that they could carry on after she died.
Since we were there on a Sunday, they had just finished the church service. We toured the ornate church and oohed and aahed at the amazing paintings and icons. Very interesting. Our guide, Carolyn, was British but has lived on Patmos for over 20 years. She just recently (4 weeks before) completed her 1.5 year training and converted to the Greek Orthodox religion. She was very enthusiastic about her new religion and was quite open to our questions about how it differed from Catholicism and other Christian denominations.
We walked around the gorgeous gardens (best looking basil and other herbs any of us had ever seen) and had a small snack of water/coffee and biscotti-like cookies covered in sesame seeds. It was unbearably hot, and none of us could imagine working in the gardens or doing other chores in their completely black habits. Carolyn our guide told us that they sometimes wore gray cotton ones rather than black silk ones, but were still completely covered. We had been told to dress conservatively, so we covered our shoulders and knees, but still had to put on a skirt. Even the men in our group who had worn shorts had to wear skirts (provided by the church).
As we toured the chapel, we were all glad we had put on the conservative clothes since it was spectacular. Sister Olympia and her novitiates did an exceptional job on the paintings and icons inside the St. Anthony Chapel. Their skill was remarkable, and it's good to know that an ancient skill like this one is being carried on.
Leaving the convent, we rode to Chora (Hora), the capital of Patmos.
We left the convent and rode to the hilltop town of Hora (Chora), which is also the capital of Patmos. There we toured the town's oldest house, which is inhabited by the 8th generation of the same family, led by the 92 year old matriarch. The house dates back to the 15th or 16th century. She had many mementos and keepsakes and told us she walks up to the second floor many times each day. We all agreed we wouldn't want to do it--the stairs were steep and tall.
Chora has narrow streets and white houses with flat roofs that are connected. When pirates used to attack the island, the citizens could easily flee their homes and escape to the monastery fortress by running from roof top to roof top. Chora has become popular with the rich and famous, so housing prices are astronomical.
After walking around Chora, we had a heavy snack at a small cafe that overlooked the harbor--several mezzes including bread, tzatiziki sauce, fried cheese, meatballs, tomatoes and cucumbers, some kind of roe spread, and hummus. It went down very easy with a large cold Fix beer (Greek beer).
Back to the pier by 1 pm, Claire and I walked around for a while in Skala town, but I didn't buy anything.
Took the tender back to the ship, arriving about 3 pm. We missed lunch at the buffet, so ate something at the pool bar although we weren't hungry from the mezes in Chora. We split an ahi tuna wrap and some onion rings. The wrap was especially good.
It was White Night on the ship, and they had a huge international buffet outdoors on the deck with entertainment (music and dancing) starting at about 9 pm. We wore our white outfits, but opted to eat in the Discoveries Restaurant rather than the buffet and then go to the party after dinner. Fun dinner with a group, and we all had a shrimp cocktail and surf & turf (lobster and a small fillet). They had other options, but we all ended up with the lobster/steak. Claire also got a Caesar salad, but I passed on it. I had the honey apple gelato and Claire got the lemon sorbet. Both were good desserts.
By the time we got out on the pool deck, the party was going strong. We sat and watched everyone dancing. You could tell it was a baby boomer crowd by the music, and everyone (including us) looked very cute in their all white attire. Some didn't dress up in all white, but most seemed to.
We didn't come back to the cabin until almost midnight--didn't follow the crowd inside to continue the party. It was another nice day in Greece, and the next morning we were in Kusadasi, Turkey.
The Azamara Journey docked at the port of Kusadasi, Turkey about breakfast time. The cruise ship had four different tours to the ancient city of Ephesus, which is about a 30 minute ride from Kusadasi. Anyone who hasn't visited Ephesus should definitely take a tour there. I highly recommend that you choose an Ephesus tour that includes the "Terrace Houses". This section requires an additional fee, but is very impressive and worth the money. Some tours to Ephesus also include a stop at "Virgin Mary's house", which is a shrine dedicated to the mother of Jesus. Although it cannot be proved, many believe the Virgin Mary once lived on this site and it is where she was assumed into heaven. Visits by Popes and other religious leaders to the site have helped solidify these beliefs.
Although almost everyone went to Ephesus and/or to St. Mary's house, we booked another "Insider's Access" tour to a country home, where we had a tour of a traditional Turkish country house, which is actually like a museum where no one lives in now, a cooking lesson, and lunch. This tour is an excellent option for anyone who has visited Ephesus and wants to have another memorable experience in Turkey. I've been on a lot of tours, and this was one of my favorites.
One of the factors contributing to an excellent shore excursion is the guide. This tour had an excellent guide named Elif who spoke English well. When we arrived at the country home, the charming daughter of the owner of the house did much of the talking. She had gone to school in Pittsburgh, so was quite knowledgeable.
We started off with Turkish tea. If you ever spend five minutes with a Turk, he/she will invite you for tea. The tea is grown in Turkey and is a black tea, always served very hot in clear glasses shaped like a "belly dancer", according to our guide. A Turkish tea pot is in two parts--like a double boiler. The bottom holds boiling water, while the top holds the tea also in water. The top section has a strainer so you don't get any tea leaves. Turkish people drink hot tea all day and evening long, and make a pot three times per day.
You have to gingerly pick the glass up near the top and sip it since it doesn't have a handle.  Most people added sugar, but it was very good just plain. (I'm a huge fan of tea and never add sugar or milk to it.) With the hot tea, we had a snack of a steaming hot Turkish quesadilla stuffed with a mixture of feta cheese and fresh parsley.
After our tea and snack, we moved to the spectacular indoor kitchen, which was in another building. (We had drunk the tea outdoors in the shade, but it was still about 100+ degrees.) The kitchen had about five steps going down into it, so it was almost like in a basement. We all oooed and aaaed over the gorgeous kitchen. Plus, it had air conditioning, making it look extra good.
Like a tv cooking show, our hostess made several of the dishes we would eat for lunch and then she or her assistant would pull the finished dish out of the oven or refrigerator. Before we could participate in the preparation, all the women had to cover their hair with a traditional scarf. The hostess and her assistant wrapped each of our heads in one of the several traditional ways. Turkish people can determine which region of the country a woman is from or her sect by the way she ties her scarf. We each ended up with a different look. Claire's was the best, and it suited her personality--she looked a little like Peter O'Toole in "Lawrence of Arabia". Her look had 2 scarves--one over her hair and down her back and the other tied like a headband around the first. The women from the region who wear this style are kind of the like the goddess Diana--huntresses who ride horses, are close to natute, and powerful. Mine was much more boring and I looked very dorky with it on.
We got to help make the stuffed graped leaves (dolma) and stuffed phyllo dough (also called dolma). Our guide said that anything "stuffed" in Turkey is called a dolma, even a packed bus in Istanbul. We all laughed at the direct translation for the cooking of many of the items--in Turkish you "kill" any fresh item when you cook it rather than saute or fry. For example, you kill the garlic or onions when sauteing them. Or you kill the grape leaf by boiling it before you add the stuffing.
The menu for our meal was amazing, and we brought home a cookbook in case we wanted to have a traditional Turkish country meal. The meal was served outside around a big table family style. We had red lentil soup served with a dollop of melted butter and a dash of mint; cold sauteed (not raw) carrot salad with yogurt; cold stuffed grape leaves; phyllo dough stuffed with feta cheese; stuffed peppers and tomatoes; cheese stuffed mushrooms; fresh watercress with yogurt; split belly eggplant with a ground meat stuffing; and fresh fruit for dessert (figs, peaches, watermelon, apricot, grapes).
Needless to say we waddled away from the table to another space to have our Turkish coffee and to get our fortunes read from the coffee grounds. A slurry of water mixed with finely ground coffee is poured into a tiny cup and then boiling water is added to taste. Sugar cubes are also often added. It's very strong and you only drink down to where you get the slurry.
Our tour guide Elif was also an amateur coffee-ground reader, and she volunteered to "read" each of our cup's remnants. So, after drinking down to the slurry, we put the saucer on top of the cup and turned it upside down. After a while, she picked up the cup and read the inside of the cup where the coffee grounds had stuck. Then, she poured the grounds from the saucer back into the cup and read the remains on the saucer. Great fun, and I think she picked up on all of our discussions to help determine our "fortune". No one heard anything bad, and we all saw it as great fun.
After the tea, cooking demo and participation, lunch, coffee, and fortune telling, it was about 2 pm and time to return to the ship. Very nice alternative tour for those who had visited Ephesus or Mary's house (or both).
That evening, we had an AzAmazing Azamara evening event at Ephesus.
Back on the ship from our visit to the country home, we showered, cleaned up, and ate an early dinner buffet in the main dining room. At about 7 pm, we left the Azamara Journey for a bus ride to Ephesus for an AzAmazing Event, a free evening event offered on all Azamara sailings for all onboard guests. (Of course, each cruise has a different event, depending on its itinerary.) This AzAmazing event was a string concert at the small Odeon theater (seats about 600 or so) at Ephesus.
Our bus arrived at Ephesus at about 7:30 or so, giving us a little time to walk around the site before the concert started. It was lovely to walk around this ancient city in the cool evening when no one was there except for us. The city looks much different at dusk.
The concert featured a Turkish ensemble of 8 violins, 2 violas, 2 cellos, 1 bass, and a harp player who joined the ensemble for 3 songs. It was a very entertaining evening, made even better by the historical setting. Azamara provided seat pads, so the marble seats didn't even feel too hard.
The concert only lasted about 45 minutes, so we were back on the ship before 11 pm. The traffic in Kusadasi was bumper to bumper, with many tourists and locals out enjoying the evening. Since all of us had eaten early, we had an (almost) midnight buffet. People were digging in like they hadn't eaten in days. I can't say much more since we were right with them.
In bed not long after midnight, ready for a day at sea on the way to Istanbul.
The day after Kusadasi was a sea day--our first on the Azamara Journey. It was a good time to catch up before arriving in Istanbul the next morning.
After a late breakfast of my usual berries, yogurt, and muesli, followed by 1/2 an omelet split with Claire, I made photos of the ship interiors and Claire walked the outdoor track for about an hour. The weather was much nicer than it has been on the ship--guess it was because we were moving!
We enjoyed an "officer's barbecue", where the top level staff (including the captain) served barbecue and all the fixins' for lunch. They had the Captain serving baked beans and corn on the cob, while other senior officers doled out tacos, pulled pork, etc. Many people sat outside by the pool in the afternoon. It was windy, but comfortable.
Claire and I went upstairs to the Looking Glass bar on deck 10 forward and had a drink before dinner. It was very quiet and we had great views of the Dardenelles. We met our group at the Prime C steakhouse and enjoyed a lively dinner. I had shrimp and crab chowder in a bread bowl, lobster salad, filet mignon, and a chocolate lava cake. Claire had a trio of shrimp, crab, and scallop appetizer, the shrimp and crab chowder, filet, and a delicious "multi-grain" souffle. It was unusual but delicious.
After dinner, we all adjourned to the Looking Glass lounge for more conversation and drinks. At 10 pm, we split up--most everyone went to the show (a Scottish flautist/singer and a comedian) while others went to a bar or to bed. It was going to be a long day in Istanbul the next day.
Our last full day on the ship we have a tour in Istanbul and then free time till our "farewell" cocktail party the last night on the ship. 
We were outside on the deck at 7 am so we could see the spectacular city of Istanbul as the Azamara Journey sailed up the Bosphorus strait dividing Europe from Asia. The Bosphorus runs north to south and also links the Black Sea with the Sea of Marmaris and the Mediterranean.
We left the ship at 9:45 and met our small bus for a tour of the city. It was already very hot, so we were thankful for the air conditioning in the van. I had last visited the city in 2012, and it seemed much more crowded. Our guide said it had grown from 2 million citizens in 1970 to almost 20 million today. The improvements in roads and bridges have not kept up with the population growth. The city also has up to 2 million refugees from Syria. Unemployment for college educated people in Turkey is about 18%, so although the place is packed and seemed very busy, many young people are unemployed or underemployed and working 2 or 3 jobs to make ends meet. Housing is also very expensive in Istanbul since the construction of homes and apartments has also not kept up with the growth.
Our driver first took us across the bridge to Asia (cruise ships dock on the European side of Istanbul) and we stopped at a small park to look back at Europe. Our guide said most families with children live on the Asian side because housing is cheaper and you can get a stand-alone house with a yard rather than just an apartment. Next, we drove back to the European side and across the Galata Bridge over the Golden Horn to the spice market. The Golden Horn is a tapering inlet of the Bosphorus shaped like a horn that divides old town Istanbul from the modern city.  
I love the Spice Market and thought Claire would too. She did. With only about 150 shops, it's much smaller than the Grand Bazaar with its 4,000 shops. Originally, it was a place for locals to shop for spices, and it still is, although there are a few souvenir shops. The smells of the spice market are enticing and exotic.
After shopping for about 45 minutes, we ate lunch at a nearby restaurant at 12:30. It was called Hamdi, and we had a table on the 4th floor with nice views of the old city, the Bosphorus, and the Golden Horn. We enjoyed a selection of mezzes (appetizers)--dolma, spicy chili spread, Turkish bread, hummus, cheese, etc. before having a main course. Although Claire and I were at opposite ends of the table, we got the same dish--kebabs of half  ground lamb and half ground veal mixed with pistachios. Sounds a little weird but delicious. No dessert for most of us, but a couple of folks got baklava (of course). None of us drank any alcohol for lunch, although this place served it. Everywhere in SW Turkey where I was last summer served beer and wine, but a license is expensive and you can't serve alcohol within a certain distance of a mosque. So, less places seemed to serve alcohol here in Istanbul.
After lunch, the bus took us over to the Haggia Sophia (Aya Sofya), one of the world's largest churches. There was a long line at the ticket counter, but since we were with a guide, we could walk right in since she had gotten our tickets earlier. Nice.
Aya Sofya has been a museum since 1937, which is why there's a fee to enter. The building started out as a Christian church in the 6th century, and was the greatest church in Christendom until the Ottomans took over Constantinople (old name for Istanbul) in the 1400's. It was changed into a mosque until Turkey became a republic in the late 1920's.
Attaturk, the great leader of Turkey who helped mold the republic into a secular state (rather than a religious one like other Muslim countries), decided the building should be a museum so that it could keep both its marvelous Christian and Moslem decor. The Moslems plastered over all the Christian artwork when they turned it into a mosque since their religion doesn't allow any figures--human or otherwise--just geometric patterns and calligraphy. When it became a museum, some of the plaster was removed, and some of the Christian mosaics are displayed next to panels celebrating the glory of Allah (written in Arabic). The architecture of this 1400-year-old building is especially impressive. How they ever built such a large domed building in the 6th century is almost unbelievable.
After touring Aya Sofya, we were off to the Grand Bazaar to do some browsing (Claire and I bought nothing). We strolled the length of the "mall" from gate 1, but ignored the vendors and just did some people watching. Back on the bus early to absorb the air conditioning. Have I mentioned a few dozen times that it was hot?
Back to the ship, arriving about 5 pm, just in time to get cleaned up for drinks and dinner with our group. Claire had the sea bass and loved it. I had a horseradish encrusted salmon, which was good, but not as good as her sea bass. After dinner, we went to the farewell show, which was all Broadway songs and very good. The cruise director was the "star" of the show.
Back to the cabin to pack and to bed. The next morning, we disembarked the Azamara Journey and headed to a hotel in Istanbul to stay for another day and a half before heading home.
The Azamara Journey promises its guests the opportunity to spend more time in port  and voyages for those who love travel. The ship delivers on both. The ship is best suited for adults who want an almost-all inclusive experience on a mid-sized ship and are interested in both the most popular ports of call along with some that are more unique. Although Azamara has one "Azamazing" evening event on each cruise, I'm sure many of its guests go home thinking that the entire Azamara experience was azamazing.
As is common in the travel industry, the writer was provided with complimentary cruise accommodation for the purpose of review. While it has not influenced this review, About.com believes in full disclosure of all potential conflicts of interest. For more information, see our Ethics Policy.
  Boarding the Azamara Journey in Athens  
  Azamara Journey - A Day in Santorini  
  Dinner Ashore in Pyrgos on Santorini from the Azamara Journey  
  A Day on Delos and Mykonos from the Azamara Journey  
  A Morning on the Sacred Island of Delos  
  Afternoon and Evening on Mykonos  
  Visit to a Patmos Convent from the Azamara Journey  
  Walking Tour of Hora, the Capital of Patmos  
  Azamara Journey - Tour to a Country Home in Kusadasi, Turkey  
  AzAmazing Azamara Evening Event at Ephesus  
  At Sea on the Azamara Journey  
  A Day (and an Overnight) in Istanbul on the Azamara Journey  
  Conclusion on Azamara Journey Cruise  
Voyages to Antiquity operates one 378-guest ship, the Aegean Odyssey. The small ship cruise line specializes in destination cruising to sites in the central and eastern Mediterranean with historical, archaeological, or cultural significance. The cruises often include pre- and post-cruise hotel stays in the embarkation and debarkation ports, and shore excursions in each port of call are also included in the fare, much like you will find on a European river cruise.
I sailed on "The Isles of Greece - Where Delos Rose and Phoebus Sprung" Aegean Odyssey itinerary from Athens to Istanbul. Although I only did the 7-night cruise, plus one night in an Istanbul hotel, the entire cruise tour was 12 nights--2 nights in Athens hotel, the 7-night cruise, and 3 nights in an Istanbul hotel. This tour was an excellent mixture of major cities and charming Greek and Turkish ports. We toured numerous ancient archaeological sites of the Greeks, Minoans, Venetians, and Romans. I had almost forgotten how important the Greek mythological deities were to their ancient civilizations. Moving ahead to the 20th century, we were touched by the more recent World War I battlefields at Gallipoli. Overall, it was exactly what I expected--educational, stimulating, and fun.
The next 14 pages provide a look at each of the places we visited. Some days we were off the ship touring all day; other days we were just ashore in organized tours either in the morning or the afternoon.
My cruise on the Aegean Odyssey of Voyages to Antiquity began with an overnight flight to Athens. The television media had recently been filled with stories of political riots in the city due to the economic debt crisis of Greece, but I saw none of this on the ride from the airport to the cruise ship port at Piraeus. I also didn't see a lot of graffiti on the buildings or other signs of social unrest. Most passengers on our cruise participated in the two-night pre-cruise stay in Athens. Voyages to Antiquity had originally planned for the cruise tour guests to stay in a downtown luxury hotel but moved everyone participating in the overnight stays to a resort hotel on the coast. Everyone seemed to be happy with the hotel change, and the included Athens half-day tour to the Acropolis went off without interruption, as did optional tours to the National Archaeology Museum, Cape Sounion, and Delphi.
I was met at the pier by Voyages to Antiquity representatives, and I was in my cabin just a few minutes after exiting the taxi. The cabin was much more spacious than I expected and had a nice balcony and bath with tub/shower combination. I ate a delicious buffet lunch in the Terrace Cafe, followed by a tour of the Aegean Odyssey. Although the ship is older than many cruise ships, it has been significantly refurbished and looks great.
The cruise tour guests arrived in mid-afternoon, and we had the mandatory lifeboat drill, followed by cocktails soon after and the welcome aboard party. Dinner was open seating in the Marco Polo Restaurant (6:45 to 8:45). I had the smoked salmon appetizer, Greek cream of chicken soup, blackened perch, and ice cream with peaches/Prosecco. All were delicious. The Aegean Odyssey sailed for Nafplio on the Peloponnese peninsula late that evening. As we sailed away from Piraeus, I could see the lights of Piraeus and the lovely coastline.
Our first full day on the ship started with the Aegean Odyssey already anchored off the town of Nafplio, Greece in the early morning. I had visited Nafplio (also spelled Naphlion, Nafplion, Navplion, Nauplia or some other variation) once before. Ships anchor in the harbor, so guests must use a tender to go ashore. It has Bourtzi, an old Venetian fort sitting on a small island in the harbor, and the legendary castle of Palamidi, a Venetian fortress from 1687 that sits high on a hill overlooking the town. Prior to 1956, those who wanted to visit the old fortress had to climb the 900+ Bavarian stone steps from near the town square to the summit. A road was built in 1956, and I took a taxi up to the top on my first visit. Like much of Greece, Palamidi was occupied by the Ottomans from 1715 to 1822. After a long siege, the Greeks recaptured the fortress and subsequently used it as a prison for those sentenced to death. It's just a shell today. It was interesting to me that the executioners lived at the fortress of Bourtzi during this time since it was bad luck to have them live in the town itself. (Note: Anyone who has read the novel "The Hangman's Daughter" will appreciate what a sad life people with this occupation had.)
Nafplio was famous during World War II as the site of the sinking of two British ships in 1941, the HMS Wryneck and the HMS Diamond. These two British destroyers were attacked and sunk by German aircraft while in the Nafplio harbor. The ships were helping in the evacuation of troops from Greece. Both ships lost most of their crew and those they were evacuating--over 1000 people.
Voyages to Antiquity had an included tour to Mycenae in the morning, and an optional tour to Epidaurus in the afternoon. I did the morning tour, but after eating a nice Greek salad and pizza for lunch outdoors on the ship, returned to Nafplio to see how much it had changed in the past eight years. I was very happy to see that the town was as pretty as ever, with narrow streets lined with Venetian houses and marvelous bougainvillea everywhere. The town was the first capital of Greece after its 1821-1832 war of independence from the Ottoman Empire, and with three ancient fortresses, it's easy to see that it has long been an important port. Since Nafplio is less than a 3-hour drive, bus, or train ride from Athens, it gets many tourists, but not too many cruise ships since it doesn't have a large dock. I wandered through the streets and did some window shopping, noting the numerous outdoor cafes and bars, which I am sure are packed in the evenings. Nafplio is definitely a nice place for a stroll, and it also has a folklore, archaeological, and military museum.
Voyages to Antiquity has most shore excursions included, and our first tour was to Mycenae, about 30 minutes away from Nafplio via bus. The ship has color-coded groups, and the buses leave about five minutes or so apart. We first rode a tender into town from the Aegean Odyssey. Mycenae is a UNESCO World Heritage site and dates back the 16th to the 13th century BC. Mycenae was one of the greatest cities of the Mycenaean civilization, and it was here that Agamemnon returned to after winning the very long Trojan War, only to have his wife and her lover kill him. The Lion Gate, a large rock entryway topped with two lionesses (without their heads) is Europe's oldest piece of a monumental sanctuary, dating back to about 1250 BC.
Like many ancient Greek towns, the part of Mycenae that has been excavated is the acropolis. Like most people, I always thought the Acropolis was only in Athens. However, now that I've been to Greece several times, I know that any fortified rock on a hill overlooking a city is an acropolis (root words are acro--top and polis--town). The acropolis at Lindos on the island of Rhodes is similar to this one. The Mycenaeans chose this rocky hill rather than the many others nearby because it has a spring water supply, was near the sea (you can see it from the summit), and has two higher mountains over it for added protection. The Mycenae acropolis has the remnants of a simple palace on top and a graveyard. The amateur German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann (who also excavated Troy) was responsible for much of the digging at the site (1876), and he found gold masks, breastplates, and arm/leg plates weighing about 90 pounds in the five graves in the cemetery that held 19 skeletons (two were children). Like Egyptian tombs, the dead also had many objects buried with them that they might need in the next life (like jewels, crowns, and vessels. Personally, I would have taken some potato chips and wine.) It was interesting that the monuments over the male graves were sculpted hunting scenes, with just plain monuments for the women. Guess even back then, men got better stuff than women. The graves date back to 1600 BC, so scientists have determined that they can't be those of Agamemnon or his family since they lived about 1200 BC.
After walking around with the guide for a while using the Audiovox machines to hear with, we had free time to explore the small museum (most of the best artifacts are in Athens or the British Museum) or walk up to the top of the acropolis. Like most of our group, I walked up to the top, took my photos, and then zipped through the museum in order to catch the bus.
We next visited the Tomb of Atreus, the father of Agamemnon. It was very near the Mycenae acropolis, and we could have walked, but the ride was nice since it was getting very warm. This Tholos tomb is one of nine tombs of similar construction in Greece. Many call this Agamemnon's Tomb, but it was built about 50 years before Agamemnon died, which is why experts think it was his father's. It is also referred to as the Treasure of Atreus. It's a huge conical shape and is built into the side of a hill.
The bus returned to the ship at Nafplio about 12:30, and after lunch, I went back into town for a few hours. Dinner was at the Marco Polo Restaurant, and it was very good. I had a feta cheese/pastry appetizer, green salad, and halibut, with cherries jubilee (and chocolate chip ice cream for dessert. The ship sailed for Crete in the early evening.
The Aegean Odyssey docked in Rethymno (also spelled Rethimno or Rethimnon), Crete early in the morning, and we had included tours both in the morning and in the afternoon. Rethymno is Crete's third largest city, with about 30,000 residents. It's located on the northern coast of Crete and a good port for small ships to dock since it's about an hour's bus ride from Chania to the west and Knossos to the east.
The main attraction in Rethymno is the huge Venetian Fortezza Castle, which is at the top of a low hill and dominates the town. Built in 1580 to protect the town from pirates and the Ottomans, it has long played an important role in protecting Rethymno. The fortress was in active use even during World War II. Rethymno has been inhabited since Minoan times but prospered under the Venetians and Ottomans. At the conclusion of our morning bus tour to Chania, we walked up to the top of the Fortezza and had good views of the ship and the town below. Near the entrance of the fort is an archaeological museum with objects dating back from the late Neolithic to the Roman period.
From Rethymno, the Aegean Odyssey had an included tour to Chania in the morning, returning to the ship for lunch. We then had an included tour to Knossos in the afternoon.
Our group left the Aegean Odyssey at 7:45 am, and we drove the gorgeous northern coastline of Crete west towards Chania. The roadway was lined with white and red oleanders, which add to the dramatic ocean views. Our guide said that the oleanders add to the beauty, but also help keep the many goats and sheep off the roads since they are thick and bitter tasting to the animals.
Crete is about 75 percent mountains, so it has many spectacular views of snow-capped mountains and sparkling, clear blue waters. The island also has many beaches and the mountains are dotted with thousands of caves, which have been very important as hiding places over the centuries since the island has been bombarded and conquered by many groups due to its prime location -- near Europe, Asia, and Africa.
We drove by the large NATO naval base at Souda Bay and many inviting beaches on the way to Chania. We arrived there about 9 am, but the scenic ride went by quickly. I had visited Chania before but hadn't seen much of the town since I had ridden across the island to the southern shore to hike parts of the famous Samaria Gorge. The town was quite charming and had a pretty little Venetian harbor (those Venetians traveled more than I do). It also had a small archaeological museum that was housed in the old Venetian church of San Francesco. I especially liked the large market.
Unfortunately, our time in Chania was very limited. We stayed in Chania until 10:15 and then rode back towards Rethymno for lunch before heading off to the Palace of Knossos in the afternoon.
We were back on the Aegean Odyssey from Chania by noon and had about two hours to eat lunch and get ready for the tour to Knossos. I ate lunch outside since although it was broiling in the sun, it was very comfortable in the shade.
Our group left the ship at 1:45 for the hour's drive to Knossos, the famous site of King Minos' palace. The peaceful Minoan civilization (no walls around their towns) ruled Crete from 2000-1600 BC. That's almost 4000 years ago! The palace at Knossos was buried under over 50 feet of rubble when Sir Arthur Evans, British archaeologist, began excavation there in 1899. As he dug, he "restored" much of the palace to the way he thought it looked. Although it's interesting, he might have done a little bit too much. It was very hot, and the place hadn't changed much I had visited there in 2004, but it was interesting to see/hear other's thoughts on the restoration.
No matter what you think about what Evans did in his restoration, the palace is huge. Most people know the Greek myth story about the Minotaur and the labyrinth. The Knossos palace was the labyrinth, and the Minoan artwork is impressive.
At the conclusion of the tour, we had about 45 minutes of free time to shop and have a cold drink. We left Knossos at 5:15 and were back on the Aegean Odyssey by 6:30. I decided to have a quick dinner at the Terrace Cafe buffet rather than go to the main dining room. I had a large Greek salad (the second one today), red snapper, minute steak, potatoes, and ice cream. All was accompanied by a bunch of wine; it had been a long day!
The next day we would be at Delos in the morning and on Mykonos in the afternoon.
The Aegean Odyssey was anchored off the sacred island of Delos the next morning. It was my first visit to this sacred sanctuary, and I was very impressed. I've been to Mykonos several times but never had taken an optional tour to Delos, because there is so much to see on Mykonos. This time, our small ship the Aegean Odyssey anchored near Delos, and we used the tenders to go ashore.
We left the ship at 8:30, and Delos and Mykonos are very windy, so it never got as hot as the day before on Crete. We also were always near the water (unlike Knossos, which is about three miles inland). Delos is a small, rocky island about three miles long and less than a mile wide. It was the most sacred place to the ancient Greeks because Zeus' twins, Apollo and Artemis (Diana), were born there. The island is in the center of the Cyclades and has over 300 days of intense sunshine a year. It is not subject to the earthquakes found in much of the rest of Greece.
The earliest inhabitants of Delos (about 2500 BC) had simple homes on the top of a low hill, and the Mycenaeans arrived at Delos in about 1500 BC. The Apollo sanctuary dates back to the 9th century BC, and Greeks from all over the Greek world came here to worship during the 5th-4th century BC.
Starting in about 167 BC, Delos was named a free port, and it became the hub of commercial activity for all the eastern Mediterranean. Rich merchants and bankers and traders settled on Delos and built luxurious homes. Many called Delos the greatest commercial center of the world and 30,000 people lived on this little rock about the 1st century BC. About 750,000 tons of merchandise moved through its four ports each year. Over 10,000 slaves were sold at the huge market square in one day!
The peaceful island Delos was attacked by Mithridates, the King of Pontus (on the Black Sea) in 88 BC and again by pirates from Athenodorus in 69 BC. After that attack, the island was gradually abandoned.
The excavations of this massive site (pretty much the whole island) started in 1872 and continue today. Like many ancient sites, archaeologists had to dig through many feet of rubble and dirt to reach the remains of the many buildings, streets, monuments, and structures like a huge theater. Very interesting site. I still can't believe I never came here from Mykonos.
I returned to the ship about 11:30 am, and we sailed from Delos to Mykonos while we were eating lunch.
The Aegean Odyssey arrived in Mykonos about 2 pm, and I rode the shuttle bus into town from the ship about 3:00. We didn't have an organized tour, but Mykonos is easy to get around, so it wasn't needed. Since I had been to the island several times before, I found an Internet cafe at the far side of the harbor and enjoyed a beer and some people watching while catching up on email. The Aegean Odyssey was not sailing for Samos, Greece until 11:59 pm, giving everyone plenty of time to explore Mykonos and have dinner ashore if we chose.
Mykonos is one of the most popular tourist destinations in Greece. Mykonos town is a quintessential Greek island town, filled with a maze of narrow walkways, bougainvillea-decorated whitewashed buildings, bars, restaurants, shops, galleries, and boutiques. The island is one of Greek's more expensive, so the shop prices are often higher than you will find on less-visited islands. Other than the myriad of shops, the island has remnants of some 16th-century windmills, which were used to grind grain when the island was a major seaport linking Venice and Asia. It also features marvelous beaches, fascinating churches and small chapels, and a few interesting museums. Mykonos is a popular gay travel destination, with several gay bars and clubs.
A group of us from the ship had dinner at one of the outdoor restaurants near the windmills. It featured good food and a spectacular view of the sunset. We were back on the ship in plenty of time before the Aegean Odyssey sailed for Samos.
The next morning, I awoke to find the Aegean Odyssey was already tied to the dock on the island of Samos, Greece in the northeast Aegean Sea. Samos is the closest Greek isle to Turkey, with the distance separating the two continents less than one mile. Samos is quite mountainous and green, very different than dry, flat Mykonos. The island is covered with olive and pine trees and also has good beaches, making it very attractive to vacationers, especially those from Scandinavia on group tours. Since the island is fairly large (six or seven times larger than Mykonos, with about 150 square miles), it offers good hiking and mountain biking for those who don't want to spend their days on the beach.
Samos' most famous native son was famous mathematician Pythagoras, who was born in 580 BC and "discovered" the geometric theorem that bears his name. Pythagoras was also the first westerner to use octave as a musical term and understood that the earth was turning west to east and wasn't flat. However, he didn't know the earth revolved around the sun. Samos' most famous visitors were Cleopatra and Marc Anthony, who spent a year on the island during one of the many wars. According to our guide, they really lived (and loved) it up there.
The Aegean Odyssey docked in Vathi (also called Samos town), which is island's largest town with about 3,500 residents. (total island inhabitants are 45,000, so it must have many towns about the same size) We had a 4-hour tour that started at 8 am and would visit three places--the Temple to Hera, the archaeological museum, and a winery.
Our bus went to the Temple of Hera (also called Heraion) first, which was about a 30-minute ride from the port. The ride was quite scenic, with great views of the oleanders lining the road, olive trees, vineyards, and mountains and the sea. Samos has many new-style windmills, and the guide said many residents make use of solar power also. Greece doesn't use nuclear power, and over 50 percent of its power is from coal. In addition to the solar and wind, they also use tidal water flowing through tubes to create hydro-electric power.
All of you who studied Greek mythology will remember Hera, wife of Zeus. Myths portray him as quite a philanderer. Her husband's infidelities drove her little nuts, and Hera did all sorts of vengeful things to Zeus' girlfriends. Everywhere we went, we heard that Hera was chasing some girlfriend or another across the Mediterranean. Our Samos guide called her the "be careful what you wish for" goddess.
The Temple of Hera was built on a swampy location, and many artifacts were found when it was first excavated 200-300 years ago. Evidently, the swamp protected even wooden items. Although many of the original pieces have been moved to museums in Samos town or Athens to protect them, the replicas provide a good sense of how it looked. It was a little eerie walking down the Sacred Way that thousands of pilgrims had walked over 2500 years ago! The most dramatic original item left standing is one of the 155 columns that once supported the largest Greek temple anywhere in the world. The temple was built in two sections--the first about 700 BC and the second about 500 BC. The column was very tall, but at the time the temple was standing, the columns were twice as high (about 70 feet or 20 meters). This temple was built about 100 years before the Parthenon, and it served as a model for many other ancient temples that were constructed in a similar style, including the Temple of Artemis at nearby Ephesus, just across the channel. During the time of Polycrates, the temple was rebuilt and expanded, but it was badly damaged during the numerous invasions and a series of earthquakes. Many of the visitors to Samos in the 17th-18th centuries spent part of their time sketching this column, much as we modern photographers all have to take a picture of it.
We only stayed at the site about 40 minutes, noting that there were two small groups of archaeologists painfully (and tediously) working at the site even today. The bus took the same route back to Samos town, where we visited the Archaeological Museum, which is housed in two buildings about a block from the harbor (next to city hall). The museum is relatively small, with pottery and sculptures from the area. The surviving statues from the Temple were placed in the museum. This includes the giant five meters high Kouros, which is the largest surviving Greek statue, dating back to the 7th century BC. The piece is a free-standing boy with a smile on his face and looks a little like the Egyptian statues, but is free-standing and sculpted all around (rather than just in the front). Interestingly, the sculptor has the hands "stuck" to the thighs and not dangling like in later works. Guess he was afraid the weight would make them fall off or tip the statue over.
After the museum, we re-boarded the bus and rode the short distance to the winery. Due to the high winds, the grape vines on Samos are grown low to the ground, and the muscat grape is most common. No red wines are produced; only white and rose. The Samos wine has long been famous, and scientists have documented jars of wine shipped across the Mediterranean to Cadiz, Spain in 500 BC. At one time, almost all the wine used by the Catholic Church for communion came from Samos. We tasted three wines, but I only liked the dry one. The expensive sweet wine was way too sweet for most of us.
We were back on the ship about 11:50, and we sailed at noon. Although only a few ships visit Samos, the AIDAaura, a German cruise line ship owned by Carnival, was waiting for our spot at the small pier when we left for Kusadasi.
It didn't take us long for the Aegean Odyssey to cross the strait to Kusadasi, Turkey and we were docked before 2 pm. The ship had an included tour to Ephesus from 2:30 to 6:30, but I decided to skip the tour since I had visited Ephesus several times, and the day was very warm. (To be honest, I was a little "dead-rocked" out, and wanted to enjoy our full-day tour the next day to Aphrodisias, Turkey).
I walked into town for a short time, but I don't have a lot of tolerance for aggressive vendors, especially when I don't plan to buy anything. One of the city's most prominent landmarks is the old Ottoman caravan stopover. Kusadasi is a favorite port for cruise ships, and there were four others in port the two days we were there. There's lots of shopping in Kusadasi, and the small island connected to the mainland by a causeway is named Pigeon Island. Interestingly, the word Kusadasi means "bird island", so the town is named for this small island. Kusadasi also has a few rocky beaches, but the city of about 50,000 is primarily a good base for tours to the ancient cities of Ephesus and Aphrodisias.
Ephesus is one of the most beautiful and best-preserved cities of the ancient world, and anyone who visits Kusadasi should plan to take a tour there. St. Paul, St. John and the Virgin Mary have all been placed in Ephesus, and the city is home to one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, the Temple of Artemis (Diana). Unfortunately, only the massive foundation of this 3000-year-old Temple remains.
In ancient times Ephesus (also called Efes) was a seaport, but the harbor silted in and the ruins are found further inland than it seems they should be. Ephesus was once home to over 250,000 residents, on a par with Athens and Rome. It was a prosperous city as early as 600 BC when it was attacked by King Croesus of Lydia. He destroyed the peaceful city of Ephesus, which did not even have defensive walls and relocated the citizens to a new site inland south of the Temple of Artemis.
In the early days of Christianity, Ephesus was a prosperous Roman town. Although it had the huge Temple of Artemis, the city had a sizable number of Christian residents, and St. John lived there, along with the Virgin Mary and St. Paul. A small house on the slope of Mt. Coressos, about five miles from Ephesus is celebrated as the Virgin Mary's House (Meryemana). Some tours include a stop at the house, and Pope Paul VI authenticated the site in 1967 when he visited. St. Paul wrote his famous letters to the Ephesians while living in Ephesus. The harbor continued to silt up, and the city declined. It was mostly abandoned by the 6th century AD.
Cruise tourists ride a coach from Kusadasi to Ephesus and walk slightly downhill through the ancient city. Buses pick them up at the other end of the city. Some tours also include a stopover at the interesting Ephesus Museum. Highlights of the Ephesus tour include a stroll along the Curetes Way, the Fountain of Trajan, the Library of Celsus, the great theater, the magnificent Terraced Houses, and the always popular world's oldest flush toilets.
The Aegean Odyssey spent the night in Kusadasi, and we enjoyed a gorgeous sunset from the back deck of the ship while having dinner. Some passengers went into the city for dinner or to enjoy the nightlife. I went to bed looking forward to seeing the ancient city of Aphrodisias the next day.
The Aegean Odyssey was docked in Kusadasi all day the next day until we sailed at 8 pm. The ship had one included tour, an all-day shore excursion to the ancient site of the city of Aphrodisias. Many on the ship chose not to go because it involved a 3-hour bus ride each way, but I didn't want to miss it. Unlike some people, I don't mind scenic bus rides, and was actually excited to see some of the Turkish countrysides since my time in Kusadasi over several cruises has been limited to just a few miles inland to Ephesus, the Virgin Mary's House, and the Church of St. John the Baptist.
We left the ship at 8 am and walked the 10+ minutes to the buses in the parking lot since Kusadasi doesn't let buses out onto the pier. Our bus only had 13, so it was almost like a private tour. We drove almost due east towards Aphrodisias, a city named after the Greek goddess of love and beauty, Aphrodite. (Yes, the root word is the same as for aphrodisiac, but they didn't pass out any samples).
We drove up into the hills, passing by many olive and orange trees. The first road was steep and winding and quite scenic but leveled out when we got into an agricultural valley. The bus went through several small towns, and it was nice to see parts of Turkey not so touristy. The bus stopped about half-way at a small store for a bathroom break and so we could get a snack/drink. What a nice surprise--the bathroom was spotless and there were at least a dozen stalls for women. They also had a guy pressing oranges for fresh-squeezed juice. With all the orange trees around, they didn't have to travel far!
Continuing inland, we passed through a few other towns, and I enjoyed the rolling countryside of the Dandalaz River valley, which had many almond, pomegranate, and other trees. We arrived in Aphrodisias about 11:15 and spent over 2 hours at the site, which is huge---twice as large as Pompeii. Only about 15 percent of the ancient city that was prosperous from the 1st century BC to the 6th century AD has been excavated. I really enjoyed the tour since the city looks a little "wild", with pillars, columns, and other remains scattered throughout the undergrowth. The walking was more difficult than at Ephesus, which is all downhill and more well-traveled, whereas Aphrodisias is more natural. Our guide told us Aphrodisias gets about 200,000 visitors each year, far less than the millions that visit Ephesus. We saw many archaeologists, many of whom were associated with New York University, which has had an excavation project in Aphrodisias since 1961.
Aphrodisias was a cosmopolitan city that is famous for the Aphrodite sanctuary and temple. It also attracted many artists who contributed to the huge number of spectacular reliefs and sculptures used to decorate the temple and the city. However, its large stadium that seated 30,000 was the place that provided the "Wow" factor for me. This stadium was the world's third largest in the ancient world (behind the Hippodrome in Istanbul and Colosseum in Rome). This stadium is very long and narrow and was used for athletic events and circuses--not for chariot racing since the narrow turns wouldn't work for chariots. It was very impressive--especially since it is well preserved. Note that almost nothing of the Hippodrome remains, and most of the seats at the Colosseum are gone. Also, the Colosseum is higher and round rather than oval.
The Aphrodite temple once had over 40 huge columns, but only 14 remain today. Other notable monuments were the double tetrastylon (ornamental gate) from the middle of the second century, the Agora from the first century BC, the baths of Hadrian, and a 7000-seat theater. The large Sebastien Hall, named for a part of the Aphrodite Sanctuary, features a few dozen reliefs and sculptures from the site. It is the newest and best part of the museum, but the only part that is not air-conditioned.
We had a few minutes to shop and have a cold drink after the tour, and left Aphrodisias about 1:30 for the short drive to a nearby restaurant, where we enjoyed a terrific Mediterranean meal. We started with a Greek (or Turkish) salad, followed by a choice of lamb kebabs (my choice), chicken kebabs, fresh trout, or vegetarian. All were accompanied by hot, delicious pita bread, olive oil, and balsamic vinegar. Dessert was baklava, yogurt, and honey, or fresh fruit. I went for the yogurt which was very tasty.
The drive back from the restaurant (which also had numerous toilet stalls--maybe the Turks are starting to catch on about tourists' desires!) was uneventful, and we stopped at an almost identical store owned by the same family, but across the street from the one we stopped at in the morning. They had a huge selection of ice cream bars, and most of us bought one, along with a cold drink since we were still hot from our long day.
We were back at the ship about 6 pm, and the shower felt terrific--love to wash off all that sunscreen and the dirt it attracts! I joined some women from New York and Canada for dinner, and we had a lovely sail away from Kusadasi. Next stop was Canakkale at the entrance to the Dardanelles.
When I awoke the next morning, the Aegean Odyssey was nearing the Gelibolu Peninsula, which greets ships to the Dardanelle Straits. We saw numerous ships in the channel as we sailed towards Canakkale, Turkey, where we would spend the afternoon. The wind was whipping in our faces as we sailed northeast through the narrow strait. Although the sea had small white caps, it wasn't rough, and the channel was both busy and scenic.
We passed by two of the largest and most dramatic New Zealand and Turkish memorials to the World War I Battles of Gallipoli, where over 1 million men fought, and over half a million died or were wounded (230,000 men lost their lives according to some accounts; others have the number much higher). The British mistakenly thought the Turkish army/navy would be easy to defeat in their desire to take over the Dardanelles and provide Russia access to the sea via the Black Sea/Bosphorus/Dardanelles/Mediterranean route. They were wrong. After 11 months, the British left Turkey defeated in a series of battles where thousands would die every day, fighting for just a few hundred yards or a hill. Interestingly, one of the Turkish leaders was a young Lt. Colonel Mustafa Kemal, who later became Turkey's greatest leader and most revered person, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the father of the Turkish Republic.
Thousands of Australians and New Zealanders make the pilgrimage to Turkey each year to commemorate the ANZAC (Australia and New Zealand Army Corps) men who fought and died at Gallipoli. Many British soldiers died there too, but the percentages are much higher for the Aussies and Kiwis. Turkey also had huge losses, and the memorials recognize that the soldiers were from both sides. They just kept throwing more men into the fray, and they kept on dying. At one point during one battle, they had a 9-hour cease-fire to allow both sides to bury the dead. But, there were so many they couldn't give them all proper burials. Just one sad story after another, but an important lesson for all who visit about the stupidity of war.
We docked in Canakkale on the Asian side of the Dardanelles at about noon. At 1:15, our tour left to cross the straits via car/bus ferry to tour the battlefields/cemeteries to the European side. About half the ship's passengers chose to go to the ruins of Troy, the other half like me chose to go to Gallipoli. I had heard that not much was left of Troy, except for a "Trojan horse" used for photo opportunities. Since we had seen marvelous ruins at other sites, I was ready to see something else.
It was a beautiful Sunday, which must be a popular time for travelers from all over to go across the Dardanelles to Gallipoli because our bus had to wait to catch the ferry going both directions! We had an excellent guide--I think he must be the best one (or the only one) that does English language tours. He is a professor who teaches English and history and is an expert on the Gallipoli battles of 1915.
We rode along the coastline and I couldn't help but notice the gorgeous beaches lining the peninsula. Much like the Normandy beaches of World War II, these had beautiful sand and were quiet, with families swimming and enjoying the sunshine. Our guide pointed out some of the important battlefield sites of this battle that lasted 11 months on the sea and 9 months on land. The losses on both sides were horrific, and the Turks didn't really want to be on the side of the Germans but felt like they had been pushed into it. (Turkey had ordered and paid for two battleships from Great Britain, but when war broke out the UK wouldn't deliver the completed ships and wouldn't refund the money. This and a few other imperialistic ideas forced Turkey to choose sides (they were also very afraid of Russia), and they chose wrong.
It was very interesting to see some of the monuments up close that I had only seen from cruise ships sailing the Dardanelles. It was also interesting to hear about the role played by famous soldiers and politicians such as Kitchener, Churchill, and Ataturk.
Because of the late ferries, we were back on the ship later than planned--about 6:30--and sailed right away. We had a farewell cocktail party and dinner. My suitcase was packed and outside the door by 11 pm and I was asleep soon after, dreaming of the next day in Istanbul.
The Aegean Odyssey docked early the next morning in Istanbul. After a wonderful cruise, we sadly disembarked from the ship at about 8:30 am, and the staff began cleaning and getting the ship ready for its next cruise to the Black Sea. The ship had an included half-day tour of the Blue Mosque, Topkapi Palace, and the Chora Church and Museum. Most half-day Istanbul tours usually include the Hippodrome (not much left of it) and the Haggia Sophia museum, but it is closed on Mondays, so the Chora Church was substituted. Some tour groups stop at the spice market or grand bazaar and those who love spas should make time to visit a traditional Turkish bath.
The Blue Mosque is still an active mosque, and they allow groups of visitors inside when services are not ongoing. Everyone removes their shoes (they give you a plastic bag to put them in to carry) and men and women have to have their shoulders and knees covered. The place was packed with tourists, so you really couldn't see very well. The Blue Mosque got its name from the 20,000 blue tiles that line its walls and the blue carpet that originally covered the floor, which now has a red carpet.
We walked to the Topkapi Palace, a 143-acre complex of buildings, gardens, and (of course) a harem for the sultan's wives (up to 500). This Istanbul palace was the seat of the Ottoman Empire for almost four centuries. Ataturk converted it into a museum in 1923 when Turkey became a republic and didn't have a sultan anymore. Like the Blue Mosque, the place was packed, with long lines for the Treasury that has many jeweled objects, including the famous Topkapi dagger made famous by the 1964 Peter Ustinov movie, Topkapi. The museum also has an 86-carat diamond and many pieces that are so big they look fake.
I had been to both Topkapi and the Blue Mosque in Istanbul ​but had never been to the Chora Church. It is a Christian church that dates back to the 5th century. It had some very intricate mosaics made with such small tiles that looked like paintings until you got very close.
We got to the luxurious Ritz Carlton Hotel about 1:30 and our luggage was already in our rooms. I ate a very late lunch in the hotel's outdoor cafe and decided to skip dinner and just eat out of the huge fruit bowl they gave me.
I left the hotel the next morning for my flight to JFK Airport in New York and then on to Atlanta. It had been a memorable cruise tour on the Aegean Odyssey of Voyages to Antiquity, filled with ancient history, amazing ruins, and excellent food and traveling companions. This cruise line is well-suited for those who love small ships, lifelong learning, and destination-oriented cruises to fascinating locales.
As is common in the travel industry, the writer was provided with complimentary cruise accommodation for the purpose of review. While it has not influenced this review, About.com believes in full disclosure of all potential conflicts of interest. For more information, see our Ethics Policy.
  Embarkation in Athens, Greece  
  Nafplio, Greece  
  Mycenae, Greece  
  Rethymno, Crete  
  Chania, Crete  
  Palace of Knossos, Crete  
  The Sacred Island of Delos  
  Mykonos, Greece  
  Samos, Greece  
  Kusadasi, Turkey  
  Ancient City of Ephesus  
  Aphrodisias, Turkey  
  Gallipoli on the Dardanelles  
  Istanbul, Turkey  
A contemporary flying carpet fleet, Turkish Airlines whisks some more than 60 million passengers a year to more than 300 international and domestic destinations in clean, modern, comfortable airplanes. One of the fastest-growing airlines in Europe, Turkey's national carrier has been named "Best Airline in Europe" multiple times by Skytrax. Turkish Airlines' gateway is modern Ataturk Airport in Istanbul.
Website
Turkish Airlines flies nonstop to North American gateways in New York, Chicago, Washington DC, Los Angeles, Houston, and Boston. The fleet consists of B777-300 ERs, A330-300s, A330-200s,  A340-300s, A321-200s and a few other models. Depending on the equipment, most planes carry 312 or 337 passengers in Business/ Comfort Class/ Economy sections. The oldest craft flown between Turkey and the USA are still relatively young and appear well maintained. We weren't certain whether it was the pilots' skill or the advanced equipment — perhaps both — but takeoff and landing were exceptionally smooth and quiet.
Turkish Airlines excels in feeding passengers well, thanks to its Flying Chefs program. On long-haul flights, business class passengers feast on authentic Turkish and international dishes from on-board chefs. Our favorite new taste was white Turkish eggplant, prepared as a tasty variation on babaganoush. Smoked salmon rosettes were equally delectable.
We were fortunate to meet Turkish Airlines' amiable head chef Christian Reisenegger on our JFK-to-IST flight and wondered how he turns out such flavorful fare in a minuscule kitchen. Answer: Items are cooked on the ground, heated (but not microwaved) in the air.
How civilized it is to fly business class on Turkish Airlines! After takeoff, a personalized menu with multiple choices is distributed for passengers to select dinner and breakfast items for the next day.
But first, a complimentary cocktail arrives. Then the chef presents a tray of hors d'oeuvres. By the time the dessert trolley rolls to your seat and you make that choice, a nap starts to sound like a brilliant idea.
Seats recline fully. A pillow and quilt, noise-canceling headphones, and an amenity kit with Hermès products are provided. Bathrooms are uncommonly large and have Hollywood-style mirror lights.
Turkish Airlines' 777s previously offered a generously proportioned comfort class, which was a premium product between economy and business, but it was discontinued.
Let's face it: It's no fun to fly economy class on any airline. Seats are narrow and too close together — even for honeymoon couples. On Turkish Airlines, where there are 9 seats per row in a 3-3-3 configuration, seats are 18 inches wide (which is still generous, compared to other airlines).
Passengers in all classes are provided with the same entertainment choices, although the screens are different. Business- and comfort-class passengers get a swing-out touch screen from which to select movies, games, music, and Voyager, which tracks flight stats. Economy-class passengers make the same selections from smaller screens embedded in seatbacks.
Crew is Turkish and solicitous, although their English is rudimentary. Depending on the equipment flown, the crew-to-passengers ratio in business class is about 1-to-10 and 1-to-40 in economy class.
To ease you into the journey home, Turkish Airlines has made its business class lounge at Ataturk Airport in Istanbul a luxury destination. Two floors of chic, contemporary design are home to a tea garden, golf simulator, library, children's playground, billiards area and more.
Food, drink, and dessert appear at every turn as chefs prepare Turkish classics such as pide flatbreads and manti dumplings before your eyes. If you crave space away from other travelers, indulge in a shower, nap in a private rest area, or work out those kinks on a massage bed. Business class, Miles & Smiles Elite, Elite Plus card holders and Star Alliance Gold members are welcome.
On our flight from JFK to Istanbul, announcements were made in both Turkish (first) and then English. In business class, the audio on the public address system was unclear. Additionally, despite four requests to turn down the temperature, the cabin was kept uncomfortably warm and there were no personal fans. Flying home on different equipment, neither of these problems occurred, and each business class seat had an adjustable personal fan.
If you've read this far, this information is your reward: It's possible to upgrade to comfort class from economy at check-in — if a seat is available. The cost is 200 Euros, a significant bargain when compared to a regularly priced comfort class ticket.
Turkish Airlines' frequent-flyer program is Miles & Smiles, with miles applicable toward flights, certain accommodations, car rentals, and other Star Alliance members.
  Equipment  
  Dining  
  Business Class  
  Comfort Class  
  Economy Class  
  Entertainment and Crew  
  Turkish Airlines Lounge at Ataturk Airport in Istanbul  
  Drawbacks  
  Insider Tips  
Celebrity Cruises is ramping up its European programs for 2016. The luxury line will feature five ships in the region and more than 45 different cruise vacations. Itineraries will call at sought-after destinations such as Santorini, Bilbao and Istanbul. In total, the 2016 season will include more than 90 "destination experiences," and feature an extended number of overnight visits.
Here's some highlights.
13-Night Italian Classic Transatlantic Cruise2016 - Apr. 2Florida: Fort Lauderdale; Portugal: Madiera; United Kingdom: Gibraltor;Spain: Cartagena; Italy: Rome12-Night Turkey & Greece Cruise2016 - Apr. 15Italy: Rome, Sicily; Malta: Valletta; Turkey: Istanbul (overnight); Greece:Mykonos, Athens, Santorini; Italy: Naples/Capri, Rome12-Night Greek Isles & Mediterranean Cruise2016 - Apr. 27Italy: Rome, Naples/Capri; Malta: Valletta; Greece: Santorini; Turkey:Ephesus; Greece: Rhodes, Mykonos, Athens, Chania, Crete; Italy: Venice(overnight);10-Night Italy & Croatia Cruise2016 - May 9Italy: Venice; Slovenia: Koper; Croatia: Zadar, Split, Dubrovnik; Montenegro:Kotor; Italy: Naples/Capri, Catania, Sicily, Venice12-Night Italy & Dalmatian Coast Cruise2016 - May 19Italy: Venice (overnight); Slovenia: Koper; Italy: Ravenna; Croatia: Zadar,Split; Montenegro: Kotor; Croatia: Dubrovnik; Malta: Valletta; Italy: Catania,Sicily, Naples/Capri, Rome12-Night Greek Isles & Mediterranean Cruise2016 - May 31Italy: Rome, Naples/Capri; Malta: Valletta; Greece: Athens, Santorini,Rhodes; Turkey: Ephesus; Greece: Mykonos, Chania, Crete; Italy: Venice(overnight)12-Night Italy & Croatia Cruise2016 - Jun. 12Italy: Venice; Slovenia: Koper; Croatia: Zadar, Split, Dubrovnik; Montenegro:Kotor; Italy: Naples/Capri, Catania, Sicily, Ravenna, Venice (overnight)7-Night Italian Renaissance Cruise2016 - Jun. 24Italy: Venice; Croatia: Zadar; Montenegro: Kotor; Italy: Rome, Florence/Pisa;France: Provence; Spain: Barcelona13-Night Iberian Peninsula Cruise2016 - Jul. 1Spain: Barcelona, Seville; Portugal: Lisbon; Spain: Bilbao (overnight), LaCoruna; Portugal: Porto Leixoes; United Kingdom: Gibraltor; Spain: Malaga,Barcelona9-Night Mediterranean & Adriatic Cruise2016 - Jul. 14Spain: Barcelona (overnight); France: Nice; Italy: Florence/Pisa, Rome, AmalfiCoast; Montenegro: Kotor; Italy: Ravenna, Venice7-Night Adriatic & Mediterranean Cruise2016 - Jul. 23Italy: Venice (overnight); Croatia: Dubrovnik; Italy: Rome, Florence/Pisa;France: Provence; Spain: Barcelona*Itineraries subject to change without notice. ©2014 Celebrity Cruises Inc. Ships’ registry: Malta and Ecuador. 14041396 • 11/20148-Night Italian Renaissance Cruise2016 - Jul. 30Spain: Barcelona; France: Cannes; Italy: Rome, Amalfi Coast; Montenegro:Kotor; Croatia: Zadar; Italy: Venice (overnight)7-Night Greek Isles Cruise2016 - Aug. 7Italy: Venice; Montenegro: Kotor; Greece: Santorini, Athens, Katakolon; Italy:Venice7-Night Greece & Turkey Cruise2016 - Aug. 14, 21Italy: Venice; Croatia: Dubrovnik; Turkey: Ephesus; Greece: Mykonos, Corfu;Italy: Venice11-Night Italy & Dalmatian Coast Cruise2016 - Aug. 28Italy: Venice (overnight); Slovenia: Koper; Italy: Ravenna; Croatia: Split,Dubrovnik; Montenegro: Kotor; Malta: Valletta; Italy: Catania, Sicily, Naples/Capri, Rome8-Night Italy & Greece Cruise2016 - Sep. 8Italy: Rome, Amalfi Coast, Sicily; Greece: Athens, Santorini; Turkey: Bodrum,Istanbul12-Night Black Sea & Greek Isles Cruise2016 - Sep. 16, 28Turkey: Istanbul (overnight), Ephesus; Greece: Athens; Bosphorus Strait(cruising); Bulgaria: Burgas; Ukraine: Odessa (overnight), Sevastopol, Yalta;Turkey: Istanbul (overnight)11-Night Turkey & Black Sea Cruise2016 - Oct. 10Turkey: Istanbul (overnight); Bosphorus Strait (cruising); Bulgaria: Burgas;Russia: Sochi (overnight); Ukraine: Yalta, Sevastopol, Odessa (overnight);Turkey: Istanbul (overnight)12-Night Israel & Mediterranean Cruise2016 - Oct. 21Turkey: Istanbul (overnight), Ephesus; Greece: Rhodes; Israel: Haifa,Jerusalem (overnight); Malta: Valletta; Italy: Rome12-Night Israel & Mediterranean Cruise2016 - Nov. 2Italy: Rome, Naples/Capri, Catania; Greece: Athens; Israel: Jerusalem(overnight), Haifa; Turkey: Ephesus, Istanbul (overnight)
13-Night Trade Winds Transatlantic Cruise2016 - Apr. 17Florida: Miami; Bahamas: Nassau; Bermuda: Kings Wharf (overnight);Portugal: Lisbon; England: Southampton8-Night Norwegian Fjords Cruise2016 - Apr. 30;Aug. 26England: Southampton; Norway: Bergen, Flam, Geiranger, Alesund,Stavanger; England: Southampton2-Night Taste of Modern Luxury Cruise2016 - May 8England: Southampton; France: Paris; England: Southampton
  Celebrity Constellation  
 Celebrity Eclipse 
The New York Times Travel Section publishes an always intriguing "best places to go" round-up story each year. In 2010, they listed 31 destinations, from Sri Lanka to Istanbul.
For GLBT travelers, how does the Times list of 31 hot spots stack up? Personally, I'll go just about anywhere I can get to, gay-friendly or not. But some of these destinations won't specifically resonate with gay travelers, either because they have no discernible "scene" or they're in parts of the world with unwelcoming or even hostile attitudes toward gays and lesbians. Others on the list have actually developed quite lively gay scenes in recent years. Here's my admittedly quick-and-dirty take on each of the 31 destinations on the list, some impressions based on personal experience, others on what I've learned from other sources. For each one, I've also included a link or two for more information on the local scene.
This is the continued critique of an article in the New York Times, "The 31 Places to Go in 2010", which was published January 10, 2010.
This is the continued critique of an article in the New York Times, "The 31 Places to Go in 2010", which was published January 10, 2010.
This is the continued critique of an article in the New York Times, "The 31 Places to Go in 2010", which was published January 10, 2010.
This is the continued critique of an article in the New York Times, "The 31 Places to Go in 2010", which was published January 10, 2010.
Sri Lanka: The Times's No. 1 pick is officially not very gay-friendly, but this small, beautiful island nation off the southern tip of India has an active GLBT community working hard to change laws and attitudes. Utopia-Asia's excellent guide on Sri Lanka lists a number of gay-friendly nightlife and lodging options, and a Gay Pride celebration is now held each June in the capital city of Colombo.
Patagonia Wine Country: Argentina is home to one of the gay capitals of Latin America, Buenos Aires, and the country's most famous wine region, Mendoza, is also popular with GLBT travelers. Patagonia is more remote and with no scene, per se, but it's a great choice for couples, wine lovers, and adventurers. Several companies targeting the GLBT market do Patagonia tours, including Kuyay Travel and BA Gay Travel.
Copenhagen: Host of the World Outgames last year and one of Europe's most progressive, attractive, and gay-welcoming cities, Copenhagen is without question one of the best GLBT destinations on the list. Resources abound, including Copenhagen Gay Life's directory and the Patroc Gay Guide to Copenhagen.
Koh Kood: Included on the Times list as Thailand's "emerging new luxury outpost", this lush and remote island doesn't yet have much in the way of gay-specific accommodations. But you can bet that as the tourism infrastructure here continues to develop, so too will its GLBT popularity. Overall, Thailand is the most gay-friendly country in Asia, and you'll find tons of information on other parts of the country at Utopia Asia.
Damascus: Not surprisingly, given Syria's mostly Sunni Muslim population, Damascus is without a visible gay scene. That being said, there is reportedly a discreet but perhaps unexpectedly large GLBT community, with much of whatever scene there is concentrated upon the Al Jadid Hammam (a famous public bath). GlobalGayz provides a fascinating perspective on gay life in Syria, and Michael Luongo's book Gay Travels in the Muslim World is an excellent resource on the Middle East in general, in the words of gays and lesbians.
Cesme: This stunningly situated Turkish hideaway on the Aegean coast is near Izmir (here's the Turkey Gay Guide's section on Izmir and the surrounding region), which has something of a quiet gay following. As an officially Muslim nation, Turkey doesn't actively promote gay tourism, but GLBT travelers are a steady presence along the Aegean coast and in the capital, Istanbul (also on the Times list). I wouldn't recommend Cesme for a particularly gay vacation, but as part of a trip throughout coastal Turkey, it's a lovely stop.
Los Angeles: Included by The Times because many of its neighborhoods have blossomed with galleries and arty scenes of late, Los Angeles is one of the world's genuine gay capitals. The city's LA Gay Pride in early June is huge, and there's a vibrant GLBT scene in several areas, notably West Hollywood.
Shanghai: This fascinating, ultra-modern, sophisticated Chinese city has long been on my own list of up-and-coming gay destinations. As China's attitudes about gays and lesbians soften, this most Westernized of the country's cities continues to develop a cool gay nightlife scene. One terrific resource on GLBT Shanghai is the Utopia-Asia Shanghai Gay Guide. And, yes, if you haven't discerned by now, I'm a big fan of Utopia Asia for advice on gay travel throughout the continent.
Mumbai: Following the devastating terrorist attacks of November 2008, India's financial center and filmmaking hub (aka "Bollywood") has worked hard to restore itself and welcome back visitors. Despite its massiveness, its relatively progressive political landscape, and the fact that India decriminalized homosexuality in 2009, Mumbai is still by no means a gay mecca - you won't find such a place in this part of the world. But it's still fascinating, if chaotically so, and gay-oriented Purple Dragon Tours includes Mumbai on one of its popular India excursions. You'll also find information on the city's limited gay scene at Utopia Asia's online India gay guide.
Minorca: Among Spain's sultry Balearic Islands, party-driven Ibiza and see-and-be-seen Majorca are already tremendously famous among GLBT revelers from throughout Europe and, increasingly, North America. Minorca? The Times cited this naturally stunning island as a "tranquil" alternative to its neighbors - indeed, the whole island is a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve. BalearicsIslands.com has the details on Minorca's scant gay scene, but given Spain's overall warm embrace of gays and lesbians, you can rest assured that you'll encounter a welcoming vibe here. Minorca's a nice choice if you need a little break from Ibiza's and Majorca's wild times.
Costa Rica: I was a little surprised to see the darling of eco-tourism on the list of 31 Places to Go, if only because this friendly, affordable, and politically stable Central American nation has been earning plenty of ink in travel pubs for years. It earned Times recognition this year in large part because Costa Rica has recently developed into a hotspot for birding enthusiasts. How gay-friendly is Costa Rica? It's one of the top draws for GLBT travelers in Latin America, and a perfect getaway whether your idea of fun is lazing on the beach, dancing to salsa in San Jose's gay discos, or Zip-lining and eco-touring through rain forests and along monkey-inhabited beaches. Here's my gallery and gay guide to Quepos, one of Costa Rica's top GLBT resorts, as well as advice on planning a perfect gay-friendly itinerary throughout Costa Rica.
Marrakesh: An officially Muslim nation, Morocco is a bit less secular than Turkey and also a country where homosexuality is illegal. But as in Turkey, gay life is evident, if discreetly so, in resort destinations, including the ancient, alluring city of Marrakesh - GlobalGayz gives a good sense of Morocco from a gay point of view. Of course, if you've ever seen the hilariously campy "Morocco" episode of Absolutely Fabulous, you're already well aware that Marrakesh has quite a legacy among chic European bon vivants, gay and straight. (There have also long been rumors floating around about the sexual orientation of Morocco's King Mohammed VI.) Marrakesh has no openly gay scene, but you'll find some tips on GLBT travel here at UCityGuides.com's gay guide to Marrakesh.
Las Vegas: Thanks to the rough economy, Las Vegas has become one of America's great bargains (just as it had been before the explosion of high-end resorts and restaurants during the past decade). I think of Vegas as one of those cities with more of a gay scene than its reputation suggests, but definitely less of one than you'll find in other large Western cities, such as L.A., San Diego, and Phoenix. I've written some extensive articles on gay-friendly Las Vegas hotels and the Vegas Gay Bar Scene, and here's my gay gallery on Las Vegas. There's a lot going on in Sin City right now, and the city's Gay Pride Festival, held in late April, is becoming quite popular, too.
Bahia: The leading gay cities in Brazil are Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. The nation's northeastern state of Bahia, notable for its African vibe and the amazing Carnival celebration in its largest city, Salvador, is considered by the Times to be Brazil's "white-hot destination." Salvador also has an increasingly more visible and dynamic gay scene - Grupo Gay da Bahia provides a comprehensive GLBT directory, and Salvador-Brazil.info has a helpful advice on the region's gay scene. Also, writer Joseph Schmitt penned a highly engaging article for respected gay-travel magazine Passport on attending Carnival in Salvador.
Istanbul: As noted earlier in my critique of Cesme, another Turkish pick on the Times list of 31 places, Istanbul runs somewhat counter to Turkey's Muslim culture in the sense that it has a significant gay scene and a relatively secular, progressive outlook on many social issues. With an amazing food scene, plenty of high-end hotels (many of them run by prominent international chains), and a number of gay bars, saunas, and other establishments, Istanbul makes for a first-rate gay vacation. And as the Times story points out, it's a "European Capital of Culture" for 2010. Excellent resources for gay and lesbian visitors to Istanbul include IstanbulGay.com, which is part of the an extensive Gay Travel Guide to Turkey; and the Istanbul Gay Guide on Nighttours.com.
South Africa: By far the most gay-friendly country in Africa, and home to Cape Town, which is a genuinely progressive and lively gay hub, South Africa is another of the no-brainers on the list. Unquestionably, this is a fantastic destination for gays and lesbians. The smartest strategy for seeing multiple parts of the country is via an organized or custom tour - Savvy Navigator and Premier Tours and Safaris are a couple of very gay-friendly companies that can help you plan trips to Cape Town, the Cape Winelands, and the lavish safari camps of Kruger National Park. GaySouthAfrica.org is an excellent country-wide source of gay travel info, while in Cape Town you should check out such handy resources as GayCapeTown4u.com and GayCapeTown's Ultimate Gay Guide.
Montenegro: The second state born of the former Yugoslavia to appear on the New York Times list borders the far-more gay-popular Croatia along the charmed Adriatic Sea. In terms of gay-friendliness, Montenegro has an awful reputation (see the dire warnings about Montenegro posted on GlobalGayz) - I'd put it pretty much at the bottom of this list. Local activists are trying to change things, as evidenced by articles on the country's nascent Montenegro Gay Portal, which is written in Serbian, but you can use Google Translate for an English version.
Vancouver Island: Rugged, wild, and consistently gay-friendly, Vancouver Island lies off British Columbia's west coast and is home to such GLBT-favored vacation spots as the provincial capital, Victoria; peaceful and groovy Salt Spring Island; and remote and stormy Tofino. The 12,500-square-mile island (it's a little bigger than Massachusetts) makes for a perfect getaway for adventurers and outdoorsy types, and Victoria offers just enough in the way of gay nightlife and sophisticated cafes and museums to satisfy fans of urban destinations. It's also easily reached from such gay meccas as Vancouver and Seattle. Useful resources for GLBT visitors to Vancouver Island include GLOSSI: Gays and Lesbians of Salt Spring Island and GayVan.com's Victoria Gay Guide.
Kitzbuhel: The luxurious Austrian ski town of Kitzbuhel has no gay scene to speak of, although it's just over the Alps from Saalbach, which is host of EuroSki Pride; and 175 km from Solden, which also hosts a GLBT ski event. Still, as fashionable Austrian ski getaways go, this cloud-capped village is pretty dazzling. The New York Times article cites Kitzbuhel's emergence into a stellar dining destination - it has several Michelin-star restaurants, plus a slew of over-the-top hotels and spa resorts. Just bring your own date. There are no GLBT resources on the area, but Tourism Kitzbuhel is a handy spot for scoring general travel advice.
Norway: Another of the less-than-revelatory destinations included among the Times 31 Places, Norway is among the most progressive and gay-friendly nations in the world - same-sex marriage became legal in 2009, and capital Oslo and hip university city Bergen both have thriving gay scenes. The Visit Norway GLBT travel page as well as a well-written article in Passport Magazine on Norway gay travel are helpful places to begin planning a trip among this Scandinavian nation's cosmopolitan cities and majestic fjords. Also check out the NightTours Olso Gay Guide and Visit Oslo official GLBT page for more specifics on the capital, and the gay page of the Bergen Guide for the 411 on that city.
Kuala Lumpur: Although sophisticated and vibrant, with a storied contemporary skyline and a fabulous food scene, Kuala Lampur is nonetheless capital of an officially Muslim country that continues to uphold British colonial laws criminalizing homosexuality. Malaysian tourism reps have told me off the record that gays and lesbians won't encounter hostile attitudes in big cities, especially in Kuala Lampur, which has plenty of high-end Western hotels and a pretty decent variety of gay bars. But officially, this is one part of the world that isn't actively courting GLBT business, and compared with Bangkok, Hong Kong, and even Shanghai, this modern city ranks well behind as a gay destination. Utopia Asia has a fine Gay Guide to Kuala Lumpur, and you'll find an accurate snapshot of Malaysian gay life at GlobalGayz.com
Nepal: Well, this one caught my eye - in fact, it partly inspired me to write this commentary on the New York Times 31 Places. The last entry on the Times list, Nepal was cited specifically as a gay destination for 2010. This by-all-accounts breathtakingly beautiful country in the Himalayas is roughly the size of North Carolina (but with three times the population). As the Times article notes, Nepal provided GLBT citizens equal rights in 2008, and "a tourist agency in Katmandu is promoting gay tourism." I wouldn't call Nepal the next Puerto Vallarta or Mykonos, but this otherwise rather conservative Hindu nation does appear to be a safe, friendly, and tolerant place to plan a vacation with a same-sex partner of a group of gay friends. The Utopia Asia Nepal Gay Guide lists plenty of resources and gay-friendly businesses, and you'll find more details on gay society in Nepal at GlobalGayz.com
If you are fortunate enough to visit Turkey at some point in your life, it won't be long after you arrive that you will be tempted, or more likely cajoled, into buying a Turkish rug by a salesman skilled in the art of persuasion.
Typical tourists are likely to think, "Aha, this is a scheme to transfer our tightly held dollars from our hands to those of a Turkish rug seller." And they would be correct.
Yet there's more to the story than that. They say knowledge is power. This is true in many, many cases. After you attend a Turkish rug demonstration, the knowledge you acquire may render you powerless to resist the opportunity to buy an original, handmade, one-of-a-kind rug guaranteed to outlive you. Just don't rush to buy that rug until you know a bit more.
On just about every tour of Istanbul and Turkey’s smaller cities, you will be “invited” to a Turkish rug sales demonstration. These are typically led by charming and hospitable salesmen who warmly greet you and offer a complimentary beverage; chai and Turkish coffee are most favored.
Once you’re comfortably settled in, you’ll hear a bit about the history of Turkish rugs…
For thousands of years, Turkish rugs have been the gold standard in floor covering everywhere from nomadic huts to grand palaces. The big difference between a one-of-a-kind Turkish rug and those sold at your local housewares or carpet store for little more than a hundred dollars is that Turkish rugs are all made by hand.
A good machine-made rug may last for decades. A Turkish rug will last for hundreds, if not thousands, of years, becoming a family heirloom passed down for generations. There are many examples of Turkish rugs found intact after millennia.
Handmade Turkish rugs are made differently from rugs anywhere else in the world for one reason:
Turkish rugs are double-knotted. Each piece of yarn is looped twice through the weft, making the rug sturdier and more durable. Rugs elsewhere are tied with a single fiber per vertical thread.
Turkish rugs can be made of silk, wool, or a wool-and-cotton blend. Dyes are all natural, using everything from rose madder to indigo to onion skin to attain subtle organic colors.
The most valuable, beautiful, and costly Turkish rugs are made of silk threads. Although they are filament-thin, they are one of the strongest natural materials known to man.
Typically, silk carpets hold 400 threads per inch. An expert weaver can knot many as 1200 silk threads per inch into a carpet. The number of threads per inch is a factor in a rug's value, along with its fiber content.
One of the most fascinating aspects of learning about Turkish rugs is discovering that the silk used comes from cocoons rather than silkworms.
Farm raised, then shot with steam to shock the incipient butterfly within, cocoons are then soaked in a vat of water.
Using a wide brush, a worker teases out a hair-thin thread from each cocoon and affixes it to a spinning wheel that extracts all the silk from the casing. It is then twisted, dyed, and ready for weaving.
The weaving of Turkish rugs is a traditional craft that young girls have taken up for centuries, taught by their mothers. Throughout Turkey, girls begin weaving in order to prepare goods for a traditional dowry and trousseau.
In recent years, the Turkish government has sponsored through its Board of Education schools where girls can enroll in a weaving course. Students come on a daily basis to better their skills and consequently earn more by producing finer rugs.
These schools are located across the country, and most are attached to a sales operation, where a customer can buy a rug directly from the place where it was made. The largest of these is outside the port city of Kusadasi, near Ephesus.
Considering that Turkish rugs last more than a lifetime, these sales offices also accept and sell used rugs, which are noted as such. On a recent visit to one, we also saw beautiful rugs that had been woven by nomadic women.
Regardless of its vintage and its condition, a fine Turkish rug is valuable and its worth may increase over time.
Turkish rugs are sold throughout the country, but it is important to buy yours from a reputable dealer/authorized agent so that there will be no doubt about the materials, age, and provenance of the rug.
In Istanbul, the clean, modern, well-lit Istanbul Handicraft Center is filled to the rafters on several floors with knotted Turkish rugs and woven kilims. It is a freestanding store located on the main walkway that leads to the Grand Bazaar.
After you've sipped your chai, the salesman will ask what type of Turkish rug you are interested in - size, colors, style - and enlist the help of burly assistants, who bring out a series of rugs to unfurl with a thwack at your feet.
Some you will like, others you will disdain, but the Turkish will rugs keep coming. Soon, you will feel your resistance ebbing....
In case the Turkish rugs there don't seduce you, the exquisite and precious designs in the jewelry store on the lower level of the Istanbul Handicraft Center may.
Turkish rug prices are not necessarily based on size.
The number of knots per inch has the most influence on the cost of a Turkish rug. Typically, silk carpets hold 400 knots per inch. Wool and wool-and-cotton blends accommodate fewer knots and are relatively cheaper.
A tightly woven, intricately designed silk rug not much bigger than a sheet of paper may cost more than a woolen carpet big enough to cover a living room floor.
Prices of small woolen or wool-on-cotton Turkish rugs start at a few hundred dollars and range into the thousands.
If you find a rug that you love, should you haggle over the price? Absolutely!
Consider the initial price simply a starting point. After some back and forth, offers and counter-offers, you may be able to acquire your Turkish rug at a price somewhere between 30-40 percent less than the initial quote.
As you discuss price, ask if wrapping, shipping, and insurance are included. You may also want the seller to affix hooks to the back of the rug if you prefer to display your purchase on the wall as a piece of art rather than allow people to walk upon it.
Regardless of price, Turkish rugs are made to be used. Increased foot traffic only strengthens them.
It's advisable to discuss cleaning with the seller and ask if there are special instructions. That said, a Turkish rug can be vacuumed daily, if you so desire.
Most stains can be removed using a gentle mixture of baby shampoo and water.
Some owners prefer to have their Turkish rug professionally cleaned.
If you're furnishing a room and can't get to Turkey, there are reputable places in the USA that sell Turkish rugs.
One excellent option is ABC Carpet in New York City, which sells vintage Anatolian (that refers to the Asian part of Turkey) rugs. Although haggling isn't encouraged, sales take place throughout the year.
Obviously, the best place to buy a Turkish rug in terms of selection and price is Turkey. Ready to go?
  A Turkish Rug Sales Demonstration  
  How Turkish Rugs Are Woven  
  Silk Turkish Rugs from Cocoons  
  Who Makes Traditional Turkish Rugs?  
  Where to Buy a Turkish Rug  
  Turkish Rug Prices  
  Haggling for a Turkish Rug  
  How to Clean a Turkish Rug  
  Buying a Turkish Rug in the USA  
It's easy to think of farmers' markets as a new travel obsession: in the decade between 2004 and 2014, over 5,000 more farmers markets cropped up across the United States. Today's consumers are demanding access to fresh produce, local and seasonal products, and food grown without chemicals.
However, that's actually nothing new. Markets have been a part of civilization for thousands and thousands of years. There's archaeological evidence that the macellum (or provisions market) in Pompeii was at the heart of the city, where locals would barter for meats, produce, and breads. The Pompeii market no longer exists, but you can get your fair share of history and incredible produce by visiting 5 of the oldest farmers markets in the world, from England to Turkey to the United States.  
Location: London, England
History: With its 1,000th birthday in the books in 2014, the Borough Market certainly has stood the test of time. In 1014, Southwark, located on the opposite bank of London, was considered a "great market town" and sold everything from corn to cattle to bread, wine, and ale.  
For around 300 years, from the 1200s to 1450s, the City of London banned its citizens from buying goods from the Southwark market and the vendors who set up on the London Bridge, because the city wanted its residents to buy within city walls so that the city could profit from those taxes. In 1550, King Edward VI sold the Borough Market to the City of London for approximately 1,000 pounds.
Over the next 500 years, the Borough Market's location has changed several times, due to fires, congestion, and other issues, but you can now find the market just south of Southwark Cathedral on Southwark Street and Borough High Street. The current incarnation of the Borough Market was built in 1756.
Location: Melbourne, Australia
History: Queen Victoria Market officially opened in 1878 as a wholesale fruit and vegetable market, established only 6 years after Australia became a colony. The market is famously known as the largest market in Australia and one of the largest markets in the world. Spread across 17 acres, the market vendors sell fresh produce, meats, cheeses and dairy, as well as non-food items, like arts and crafts, pottery, and fabrics.
The market has a colorful and controversial history. The original hay market was first used as a female penitentiary. Parts of the Market’s location were once the site of a cemetery, and not only that, but it was Melbourne’s first official cemetery, housing the remains of approximately 10,000 of Australia’s early settlers. When the market was growing in size, 914 bodies were removed and relocated to other cemeteries; however, an unreported number of bodies still remain underneath the market’s car park.
Location: Easton, Pennsylvania
History: Since 1752, Pennsylvania’s Easton Farmers’ Market, an open-air market, has never shut its figurative doors. EFM claims the title of “America’s Longest Continuous Running Open-Air Market.” Easton, Pennsylvania is located on the river, in between New York City, Philadelphia, and Trenton, making it the perfect location for trade and community gatherings.
On July 8, 1776, the “Great Square” at Easton Farmers' Market was one of only three places where the Declaration of Independence was publicly read. Today, the indoors market is smaller than the large outdoors market, but the indoor portions are housed in a dry goods store built in 1897.
Location:  Istanbul, Turkey
History: The Spice Bazaar was built in 1660 in Istanbul to help fund the construction of the New Mosque next door, because the revenues from the vendors' rental paid for the upkeep of the mosque. The Spice Market was called the Egyptian market because many of the sellers were Egyptian and brought spices for sale to Istanbul. The Spice Bazaar soon became the center of Istanbul's spice trade and continues to be the center of the spice trade, today. The market is a whirlwind of smells and colors, with mounds of spices piled high in front of dozens of shops across the dim and cool market.
Location: Rome, italy
History: The Campo de Fiori is today Rome's most popular market, a bustling place where visitors can find an abundance of flowers and fruits and vegetables. However, in the early 1600s, this plaza was used for executions.  
In 1600, Giordano Bruno was burnt alive for heresy because he claimed that the stars were distant suns with planets surrounding them and that those planets could potentially host life forms on it. In fact, he insisted that the universe was infinite and didn't have any single celestial body at its center. It doesn't sound very heretical today, but he was found guilty by the Inquisition and burned at the stake at the center of the Campo de Fiori, which has led ​modern-day scientists to consider him a martyr for science. In 1889, a statue was erected to Bruno at the center of the Campo de Fiori.
Since 1869, a daily vegetable and fish market has been held at the Campo de Fiori, which was initially moved from the Piazza Navona. Today, this is one of the most picturesque spots in the Eternal City and you'll find visitors and locals haggling for fruits, vegetables, and flowers at this beautiful piazza.
 Borough Market 
 Queen Victoria Market 
 Easton Farmers' Market 
 Istanbul Spice Bazaar 
 Campo de Fiori Market 
The idea of a European honeymoon has long enchanted couples in love.
The food, the culture, the history, the architecture, the sheer beauty of the continent and its major cities all feed into the aura of romance. Yet serious political issues, including terrorist bombings, the arrival of refugees, even the rise of anti-semitism, have given couples pause about the safety of visiting.
If one of you is frightened, don't go. The world is a big place, and you can certainly find another destination to put your mind at ease. On the other hand, the threat of danger is everywhere in today's world. If you were to visit Paris, you'd still see couples in love walking hand in hand along the Champs-Elysées. In London, you'd see lovers kissing outside of Victoria Station. In Istanbul, couples haggle over goods in the Grand Bazaar.
The bottom line: Life goes on — and you never know when your time will be up. So live, love and travel. Knowing that you can't go everywhere, these are places in Europe that I consider especially romantic and worth visiting on a honeymoon or romantic getaway.
There's more to Belgium than artisanal chocolate in Brussels and riverboats in Bruges, yet those are great places to start.
Under Communist rule for decades, these cities and countries have flourished under freedom.
Budapest
Croatia
Estonia
Prague/Czech Republic
It doesn't seem like another country; it seems like another world. While Moscow is a city of business and politics, St. Petersburg retains much of its magnificent architecture and history.
Tradition, history, art, architecture, museums and West End theatres all lure lovers.
London
It's not the most exciting place in Scandinavia, but it's very clean.
The country that invented l'amour.
Paris
It would take a lifetime to explore the beauty of Greece. Start early.
It's not connected to Europe but definitely is worth a stopover on your way there or back.
Gorgeous, green Ireland seduces visitors with its friendliness and easy-going pace. 
Why are there more destinations to recommend in Italy than anywhere else? Because it truly is the most delicious, irresistibly romantic country in Europe.
Florence/Tuscany
Rome
Venice
Charming countries within Great Britain.
  Special Places for a Honeymoon in Europe  
  Austria  
  Belgium  
  Denmark  
  Eastern Europe  
  Russia  
  England  
  Finland  
  France  
  Greece  
  Iceland  
  Ireland  
  Italy  
  Monaco  
  Netherlands  
  Norway  
  Russia  
  Scotland & Wales  
  Spain  
  Sweden  
  Switzerland  
  Turkey  
The Austrian Alps
Hotel Sacher
Vienna Photo Tour
Vienna's Coolest Places
Bruges in Pictures
Brussels in Pictures
Brussels Top Attractions
Tivoli Gardens
Attractions of Budapest
Budapest in Pictures
Four Seasons Gresham Palace
Hungarian Food in Budapest
Jewish Budapest
Villa Orsula
Tallinn Photo Tour
Best Prague Hotels
Prague Photo Tour
Chateau Mcely
Grand Hotel Europe in St. Petersburg
Russian Wedding Traditions in St. Petersburg
Beatles Hotel in Liverpool
Lace Market Hotel in Nottingham
Leeds Castle
Waterside Inn
Honeymoon in London
London Long Weekend Itinerary
51 Buckingham Gate
Athenaeum Hotel
Brown's Hotel London
Cadogan Gardens No. 11
Corinthia Hotel
Flemings Mayfair
Savoy Hotel
Hotel Kamp Helsinki
Klaus K Hotel
Why Honeymoon in France?
Know the French Tourism Regions
Burgundy Barge Cruise
Provence Hideaway
South of France Honeymoon
South of France in Pictures
Honeymoon in Paris
Mandarin Oriental, Paris
Romantic Movies about Paris, France
Shangri-La Hotel, Paris
Honeymoon in the Greek Islands 
Athens
Chalkidiki & Its Peninsulas​
Crete
Rhodes
Santorini
Sporades Islands​
Iceland Travel Holiday
Romantic Dublin
Dublin's Shelbourne Hotel
Dublin's Westbury Hotel
Dublin's Four Seasons Hotel
Ballyfin House
Dromoland Castle
Belfast and Northern Ireland
Waterford Castle
Waterford Crystal Factory Tour
Wild and Windswept Galway
The Italian Alps
Four Seasons Hotel Milano
Hotel Caruso Belvedere on the Amalfi Coast
Il San Pietro di Positano on the Amalfi Coast
Taste of Parma
Turin in Pictures
Taking the Train Around Italy vs Renting a Car 
Villa Feltrinelli on Lake Garda​
Learn to Cook in Florence
Four Seasons Florence
Hotel Lungarno
Castello Di Casole
Hotel Adler Thermae
10 Most Romantic Hotels in Rome
Best Rome Sightseeing Tours
Romantic Rome
Hassler Hotel Rome
Regina Hotel Baglioni 
Venice Photo Gallery
Bauer Il Palazzo Hotel
Bauer Palladio Hotel & Spa
Gritti Palace on the Grand Canal
Hilton Molino Stucky
Hotel Cipriani Venice
Venice, Italy vs The Venetian Las Vegas
Top Books About Venice
Where the Fairytale Comes to Life
Hotel de Paris
Monte Carlo Beach Hotel
Amsterdam Attractions for Adults
Amsterdam's Dylan Hotel
Amsterdam Marriott Hotel
Andaz Amsterdam Prinsengracht
Tulip-Time River Cruise
Flying Norwegian Air
Discover Oslo
The Thief Hotel in Oslo
Historic Kviknes Hotel on the Sognefjord 
Grand Hotel Europe in St. Petersburg
Russian Brides & Grooms
Russian Wedding Traditions
St. Petersburg Cruise Port
Scotland Honeymoon
Connoisseurs Scotland Luxury Hotels
Edinburgh Hotels for Couples
The Gleneagles Hotel
The Torridon in Scotland's West Highlands
Royal Yacht Britannia
Wales Honeymoon
Barcelona Honeymoon
Mandarin Oriental Barcelona
Seville's Gran Melia Colon Hotel
Salamanca, Avila and Segovia
Best Things to See and Do in Stockholm
Hackeberga Castle Outside of Malmo
Volvo European Delivery Program
Flying Swiss International Airlines
Traveling on Swiss Trains
Switzerland's Greatest Hits
Sightseeing Zurich | Dolder Grand Zurich
Romantic Lucerne
St. Moritz Honeymoon | Badrutt's Palace in St. Moritz
Hotel Splendide Royale in Lugano
Flying Turkish Airlines
Loving Istanbul | Taste of Istanbul
Istanbul's Most Romantic Hotels
Shangri-La Bosphorus
Mandarin Boutique Hotel
Mardan Palace
How to Buy a Turkish Rug
