The five-star Corinthia Hotel Lisbon is one of Lisbon's most enduringly popular luxury hotels. And it's not difficult to see why:•This is a no-question five-star hotel, with the handsome rooms and the refined, English-speaking hotel service that luxury travelers expect• It's a modern high-rise hotel that provides a respite from Lisbon's antique atmosphere• It is run by a family-owned, Malta-based hotel company, Corinthia Hotels, that is dedicated to excellence• The hotel's imposing 27-story height delivers stunning views of beautiful Lisbon• Guests can enjoy two restaurants, plus a club-level lounge, and one of Europe's best city spas• The property was recently awarded “Europe's Leading Green Hotel” and “Portugal's Leading Conference Hotel” at the 2015 World Travel Awards
The Corinthia Lisbon is situated in the Sete Rios neighborhood of Lisbon, and is not within the bustling city center. But in my opinion there's nowhere better to base yourself for a short stay in the Portuguese capital.
The hotel is near everything you'll be doing:• It's only a 10-minute ride from the international airport• And a quick subway ride from the historic district of Alfama and the nightlife hub of Bairro Alto (attraction-packed Belém is reachable via subway and then bus or tram)• Great news: Corinthia Lisbon is set by a main train station, so it's easy to hop aboard foward popular day-trip destinations• My day-trip choice: medieval Sintra, known for its stunning palace, castle, and university; hire a scooter (we used Magik Green) and motor out to the coast for amazing sights from Europe's westernmost point
• More day trips from Lisbon• 10 best things to do in Lisbon
You will probably be pleased with Corinthia Hotel Lisbon if:
• You seek the reliability of a trusted hotel brand• You want to stay in a no-question luxury hotel• You expect five-star hospitality service from hotel staffers• You like modern hotels for their sparkle and tech comforts• You want to be within easy reach of the airport• You want a hotel with easy access to day-trip destinations• You like having good restaurants and bars just an elevator ride away• You love an in-house spa and/or a good hotel gym• You always upgrade to the hotel's executive-level club floor; there's a good one here• You were hoping for a room with a scenic view of Lisbon• You're traveling with kids and will appreciate the hotel kids' pool, babysitting services, and location opposite Lisbon's zoo
You may not fall in love with Corinthia Hotel Lisbon if:
• You wanted to stay in the bustling city center of Lisbon• You prefer ornately decorated vintage hotels to sleek contemporary hotels• You'd rather stay in an intimate-feeling boutique hotel than a large hotel• You're into the trend of spa-like bathrooms; this hotel's are more conventional
Next: the view-tiful rooms and suites at Corinthia Lisbon
Corinthia Hotel Lisbon is a large, modern hotel. It offers 518 guest rooms and suites spread over 27 floors.
I stayed in an open-plan Executive Junior Suite on the 24th floor. I recommend staying in a high-floor room with executive lounge access -- for the views and the cushy VIP perks.• The suite was open-plan, airy, and spacious• Art Nouveau lamps provided decorative flair• The bed was king-size and the TV large-screen• Floor-to-ceiling windows captured amazing vistas• WiFi was free• We took frequent advantage of the executive lounge access included with the room (details on following slide)
We were a little surprised that:• The suite was modestly decorated: more practical than palatial• The suite's bathroom was simpler and more down-to-earth than in many modern luxury hotels
The best room in the house, as at many hotels, is the Presidential Suite. And this hotel's Presidential Suite is said to be the fanciest suite in Lisbon• It rambles over nearly 1700 square feet, the size of a three-bedroom city apartment• The suite features a large master bedroom with a king-size bed, second bedroom, spacious living and dining room, fully-equipped kitchen, library, and two bathrooms 
Next: the perks of the hotel's club-floor Executive Sky Lounge
A total of 76 Executive Rooms on the top floors include access to the Executive Club Sky Lounge. This is an area on the 24th floor that serves fine food and drink all day amidst breathtaking panoramic views over Lisbon.
• Complimentary WiFi• Free international newspapers• Extensive business facilities such as computers and meeting rooms• Enhanced concierge services• And ongoign eats and drinks...
• Food service begins early with hot breakfast selections• Then a cold buffet all day• Free-flowing Champagne and Portuguese wines, beer, sodas, and Nespresso coffee• My favorite bites in the Sky Lounge? Octopus tapas, divine chocolate truffles, and the brilliant cheese selection, with Portuguese varieties you rarely see outside the country
Next: dining at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon
Corinthia Hotel Lisbon offers a number of pleasing dining options for guests who like to dine at their hotel.• The two restaurants, Sete Colinas and Típico, are set on the lobby level• Hotel room service is 24/7• Check out  Corinthia Lisbon's dining page 
The breakfast buffet at Sete Colinas is temptingly varied.• You can choose typical cold Continental fare such as cereal, yogurt, cheeses, ham, bread, pastries, fresh fruit, and more• And you can also sample hot dishes such as omelets, waffles, bacon, sausage, and more• You'll find Portuguese bites like the pastéis de nata, egg-custard pastries• Depending on your room-rate deal, breakfast may or may not be included 
Típico serves lunch and dinner.• The wide range of lunch sections covers Portuguese tapas, a salad bar, and live "show cooking" in the semi-open kitchen
Dinner is a la carte.• I wholeheartedly recommend starting with pan-fried foie gras marinated in white Port...• ...followed by either the ginger-flavored salted codfish with vegetables or the grilled medallions of veal in Madeira wine sauce alongside truffled scrambled eggs and potato• For dessert, try the dark chocolate pot de creme with olive oil and sea salt along with Burmester tawny Port• Típico's wine list is extensive, but for real local flavor order a Portuguese vinho verde ("green" wine, which is white)
Next: drinking at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon 
"F&B" -- food and beverage, in hotel parlance -- is taken seriously at Corinthia Lisbon. This is a fantastic place to kick back with a drink in your hand.
The chic Tempus Lounge, open until 1 A.M. every night, is perfect for a light aperitif, after-dinner cocktail, or for sipping a quiet whiskey.• It also offers a menu of tempting light meals, including sandwiches, soups, salads, and other snacks• Tempus is a soothing place to marvel over your day in Lisbon, with a classical pianist playing, and occasional concerts
On sunny days and warm evenings, guests head out to the Terrace Lounge for al fresco drinks and snacks.• This outdoor patio is an equally lovely setting for morning coffee or a cocktail under the stars
Guests also enjoy the easy-to-find lobby bar for a relaxing drink with friends or an informal meeting.
Next: the excellent fitness options at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon
When it comes to working out, the Corinthia Lisbon more than delivers.
The hotel is home to a large gym packed with state-of-the-art equipment.• You can work out a number of ways: on cardio treadmills, stair-steppers, bikes; circuit-training machines; a Kinesis training system; Powerplate; TRX; free weights• Fancy pushing yourself harder? You can hire a personal trainer to help you stay on course
There's also a pleasant indoor swimming pool, perfect for doing a few laps or splashing with the kids.• The pool is chlorine-free, with no irritating, nasty chemicals• Swimmers must wear a bathing cap. You can bring your own or buy one at gym reception for 5 euros• You can see a pool photo three slides back
Next: Holmes Place Spa at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon 
After all your hard work exploring Lisbon, it feels good to indulge yourself in the beautiful Holmes Place Spa.
Holmes Place Spa offers varied wellness treatments for face and body.• Several treatment rooms include couples' suites with private baths and saunas• Spa services are modern and global• Some examples: aromatherapy facials, Reiki balancing massage, volcanic-mineral body scrub, healing reflexology• I enjoyed my "World of Travel" massage, which uses scents and oils from all across the globe, relaxing the body while entertaining the mind
The spa's star element is an inviting bath circuit based on ancient hot-and-cold bathing rituals.• The multi-phase circuit covers a warm hydrotherapy pool with jets and spouts; cold plunge pool; brisk ice fountain; Jacuzzi; sauna; steam bath; cooling walk; bucket showers and massage-jet "sensory showers"• The bath is complimentary with a spa service, and available for a fee on its own• A swim cap is required, and can be bought at spa reception
Next: Find out more abut at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon 
• Corinthia Lisbon website• Like the hotel on Facebook• Follow Corinthia Lisbon on Twitter• Find great hotel photos on Instagram• Reach by email or call +351 21 7236363 
Disclosure: The hotel provided complimentary access for review purposes, a standard practice in the hospitality field. For more information, please see our site's Ethics Policy.
  A Great Hotel Location for Lisbon and Beyond  
  Will You Like Corinthia Hotel Lisbon?  
  Will Corinthia Lisbon Be the Right Hotel for Your Visit to Portugal's Capital?  
  Rooms and Suites at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon  
  Guest Accommodations at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon  
  Smartest Room Choice in Corinthia Hotel Lisbon  
  Best Accommodations at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon: Presidential Suite  
  Executive Sky Lounge at Corinthis Hotel Lisbon  
  Perks Galore at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon's Executive Sky Lounge  
  Sky Lounge Perks for Executive-Level Guests  
  Food and Beverage Served in the Sky Lounge  
  Restaurants at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon  
  Fine Dining at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon, from Buffets to Tapas Bites  
  Boffo Breakfast at Sete Colinas Restaurant  
  Lunch Munches at Típico Restaurant   
  Bars at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon  
  Enjoy a Drink at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon  
  Tempus Lounge in Corinthia Hotel Lisbon  
  Terrace Lounge in Corinthia Hotel Lisbon  
  Lobby Lounge Bar in Corinthia Hotel Lisbon  
  Outstanding Fitness Options at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon  
  It's Easy to Stay in Shape at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon  
  Gym at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon   
  Pool at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon  
  Spa at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon  
  Kicking Back at Corinthia Hotel Lisbon's Holmes Place Spa  
  Spa Services at Holmes Place Spa  
  "Acqua Area" Bath Circuit at Holmes Place Spa   
  Find Out More About Corinthia Hotel Lisbon  
  Find Out More About Corinthia Hotel Lisbon  
The westernmost capital of mainland Europe occupies a stunning position on the Atlantic coast where the Tagus river empties into the Atlantic Ocean.
While the population of Lisbon proper is a little over half a million people, the Lisbon Metropolitan Area is composed of 2.8 million people. Lisbon is a very walkable city.
Influenced by the Gulf stream, Lisbon has one of the mildest climates of western Europe. Winter and early spring offers the most rain, but it snows only infrequently in Lisbon and freezing temperatures are rarely felt. Mist off the Atlantic sometimes makes Lisbon feel cooler than inland Portugal. For Lisbon historic temperatures and rainfall, as well as current weather conditions, see  Lisbon, Portugal Weather.
Lisbon Portela Airport is located 7km north of the city of Lisbon. There are two taxi stands at the single airport terminal, outside Departures and Arrivals. The new extension of the Red line connects the international airport to the Lisbon metro system. See the metro map.
ScottUrb provides transport to the airport from the Estoril and Cascais area. Buses operate every day and leave every hour from ​07:00am to 10:30pm.
Lisbon has several railway stations: Santa Apolónia and the Gare do Oriente are the major ones. All offer access to the city center via public transport or are within walking distance. Santa Apolónia, the larger main station, has a tourist information office. Rossio station is located in the heart of Lisbon. [Map of stations]
There is a good tourism office located at the Arrivals hall of Lisbon Airport. If you don't have a hotel reservation when you arrive, this is the place to get your map and make lodging plans. Other offices are located at Apolónia rail station, Mosteiro Jerónimos in Belém. There is a kiosk n the heart of the city in old quarter of Baixa, that will answer all your questions as you walk around in this fascinating city. The main Lisboa Ask Me Centre is in the Placa do Comércio.
The Lisbon Tourism web site is Visit Lisboa.
Hotels in Lisbon cost less than in most other capitals of Western Europe. This makes Lisbon a great place to splurge on a level of luxury you can't normally afford. I've had great stays at the five star Dom Pedro and the Lapa Palace.
The Bairro Alto Hotel is a favorite with visiting Americans. Even if you're not staying there, its panoramic terrace is a fine place to have a drink in the afternoon or evening.
If you need an apartment in Lisbon, HomeAway lists almost 1000 vacation rentals in Lisbon district.
7 Colinas - one card gets you on pretty much every transport system in Lisbon. The rechargeable card has an antenna that you hold near a reader found on Carris buses and trams and at the underground to allow admittance. It's rechargeable, and a great value for transportation in Lisbon.
The new Navegante Pass offers full mobility throughout the city of Lisbon by integrating the public transport companies Carris, Metro and CP in the city's urban circuits.
One of the most compelling day trips from Lisbon is to Sintra, a 45 minute train ride away and a world apart, full of (real) fantasy castles and villas.
While the trip to Sintra is very easy to do on its own, you might want to consider a Viator day trip from Lisbon tour (book direct).
The seven hills of Lisbon are loaded with things to do.
The alfama district near the Targus has escaped many of the earthquakes that have ravaged Lisbon, and you can walk through the narrow lanes and enjoy the old village atmosphere of Lisbon. Nearby is the Fado Museum, a must for music lovers.
Santa Maria Maior de Lisboa or Sé de Lisboa is Lisbon's cathedral and the oldest church in the city. It's been rebuilt many times after various earthquakes, and has a jumble of architectural styles. Construction started on it in 1147.
Get great views of Lisbon from the Castle of São Jorge on the city's highest hill.
Take the #15 tram from Comercio square out to the Belem district, where you'll likely spend all day seeing the Mosteiro dos Jeronimos (see Mosteiro dos Jeronimos pictures), visiting the Belem Tower (Belem pictures), or Terre de Belem, and the Padrao dos Descobrimentos (discoveries monument), with time out for a Pasteis de Belem, the famous custard tarts of Lisbon. Have lunch at A Comenda Restaurant inside the Belem Cultural Center.
If you have time left over, take the #28 bus from in front of the Monastery to Postela and visit the Parque das Macoes, built for Expo98, and see the Oceanarium, one of the biggest aquarium displays in Europe.
For shopping and nightlife, the Bairro Alto is the place to be. Nearby is the Elevador de Santa Justa or Santa Justa lift, where you can not only see Lisbon from above and visit the Convento do Carmo, an earthquake-ruined Carmelite Convent that stands as a sort of symbol of Lisbon, but you can buy transportation tickets good for all forms of public transport at the base of the Elevador, including the 7 Colinas pass mentioned above.
Estação do Oriente, Orient Station, besides being a major transportation hub, is a beautiful iron and glass structure particularly evocative at night.
We've enjoyed the Restaurante A Charcutaria, which specializes in the food of the Alentejo region of Portugal. A hot, new restaurant offers up some fine, up and coming wines from Portugal, Enoteca de Belém.
If you want a well-received restaurant or bar connected with a state-funded circus school, try Restô do Chapitô, or read Clowning Around in Lisbon for some background info.
For a virtual tour of Lisbon, see our Lisbon Pictures.
  Climate:  
  Lisbon Portela Airport (LIS)  
  Rail Stations  
  Lisbon Tourist Offices  
  Lisbon Accommodations  
  Transportation Passes  
  Day Trips  
  Attractions in Lisbon - Things to Do  
  Eating Out  
  Pictures of Lisbon  
Lisbon is well situated roughly in the middle of the Portuguese coast and, with good train and bus connections, is a good place to base yourself for exploring central Portugal.
Let's take a look at some of the most popular day trips from Lisbon.
The place everyone most wants to visit from Lisbon is perhaps the most awkward, due to the two-and-a-half-hour train ride, but connections to Porto are easy so it is quite doable.
A more realistic day trip (or trips) is the sights to the west of Lisbon, especially Sintra. Transport connections are good between all of these sights, so you can easily combine two or even three in a day.
Evora is a world heritage site, with Roman ruins and a chilling bone chapel (Capela dos Ossos). And, as it is situated in the Alentejo wine region, there are also some great wineries to visit too. 
Both train and bus take around 90 minutes to get to Evora from Lisbon.
Fatima is an important Catholic pilgrimage site due to reports of the apparition of the Virgin Mary back in 1917. The main attraction is the Sanctuary of Fatima, which commemorates the reported event.
Fatima is often combined with a tour of some other religious sights in the area.
The university town of Coimbra has a wonderfully idiosyncratic student tradition (take a walking tour to learn about it). It takes just an hour and a half to get to Coimbra by train from Lisbon.
Fatima and Coimbra are in the same direction, but as there is no train station, you'd need to travel by bus to include Fatima
You'd be ill-advised to visit both Fatima and Coimbra in a day. but if you are traveling light, Fatima could be a convenient stepping stone to Coimbra, with the logical next step being onward to Porto. Suddenly, there's an itinerary emerging!
Some of the best sights outside Lisbon are so close to the capital and to each other that they can be visited all in a single day.
All buses are operated by Scotturb, while train info is available at  Cp.pt.​
Sintra is, for a many, a day trip in itself. But if you tend to tire easily and would prefer to combine your trip with a few hours at the beach, you can easily combine it with some time in Cascais or Estoril. Alternatively, an excursion to Cabo da Roca is a good way to break up your day.
If you're on a beach vacation, you'll probably choose Estoril or Cascais as your base and perhaps head over to the other for a change of scene (or to check out Cascais' more extensive nightlife), which is easy by bus, taxi or (during daylight hours) walking.
But three or four in a day? There is little point in packing two beach towns into such a long day, so drop Estoril. But even then, you'll be hard-pressed to make such a trip by yourself. 
How to Travel Between Sintra, Cascais, and Cabo da Roca
The 403 bus here is your friend. It departs hourly, going from Sintra to Cascais via Cabo da Roca and takes around an hour. If you're in a hurry, the 417 bus misses out the cape but gets you between Sintra and Cascais in half the time.
Estoril and Cascais are just five minutes apart by train (you can even walk). To get from Estoril to Sintra, take the 418 bus.
On this page, you'll find transport information for getting from Lisbon to Fatima, Obidos, and Nazare by guided tour, bus, train, and car.
The bus takes one hour from Lisboa-Campo Grande. Check schedules at Rodotejo. 
The bus from Lisbon to Fatima takes 1h30 and costs about 10€ each way. Book from Rede Expressos . 
The closest train station is 10 km outside the town and requires a bus transfer.
There are regular buses by Rede Expressos to Nazare from Lisbon, taking around two hours.
Bus connections are poor or impossible between these sights, so your only option is a guided tour or driving.
Guided Tour: There are many guided tours from Lisbon to Fatima. Some take you directly to Fatima or you can combine other sites with Fatima.
By Car: It takes around an hour to get from Lisbon to Obidos. The onward trip to Fatima - via Nazare - takes a little over an hour. The return journey to Lisbon then takes around an hour and a half. Better still, finish your day in Coimbra, a 50-minute drive from Fatima.
Looking to visit Portugal's Alentejo wine region? Then you'll most likely want to head to Evora, the capital. 
Though Evora is a little further from Lisbon than most Day Trips from the Portuguese capital, it is still well connected by both bus and train, making it a popular destination for sampling Portugal's under-appreciated wines.
If you are coming into Portugal from Spain, you may prefer to stop in Evora before making your way to Lisbon. It takes just over an hour from Badajoz or two hours from Merida. Note that Portugal is in a different time zone to Spain, which may mess with some booking websites' travel time estimates.
See also:
The bus and train take a similar amount of time and cost about the same. The train will be more comfortable, but if you are staying close to the bus station, it may be more convenient to just take the bus. 
Bear in mind that if you want to visit a winery, it will be much easier to go by guided tour.
There are guided tours from Lisbon to Evora. The tour should include a visit to the chilling Chapel of Bones in the St. Francis Church, as well as sights such as the Cathedral of Évora, the Roman Temple, and the Almendres Cromlech.. 
If you are staying in Evora for a few days, you may prefer to do a tour that begins in the city.
The train ride from Lisbon to Evora takes 1h30 and costs about 15€ one way.
The bus from Lisbon to Evora takes a bit over 1h30 and costs about 20€ round trip (or around 10€ one way). Book from Rede Expressos.
The 130 km drive from Lisbon to Evora takes about one-and-a-half hours.
  The Best Excursions From the Portuguese Capital  
  Can You Go to Porto as a Day Trip From Lisbon?  
  The Golden Triangle of Sintra, Cascais, and Cabo da Roca  
  Evora and Other Wine Regions in Portugal  
  North From Lisbon: Fatima, Obidos, Nazare, Batalha, and Coimbra  
  Join the Dots  
  How to Get From Lisbon to Sintra, Cascais, Estoril, and Cabo da Roca  
  What to See and Do in Each  
  How to Get from Lisbon to...  
  How Many Could You (and Should You) Visit in One Day?  
  Estoril to Cascais and Sintra   
  Fatima, Obidos, Nazare, Batalha  
  Lisbon to Obidos  
  Lisbon to Fatima  
  Visiting Nazare  
  Connecting up These Sights   
  Visiting Evora From Lisbon  
  Evora en Route From Spain to Lisbon  
  Best Way to Travel Between Lisbon and Evora  
  Lisbon to Evora by Guided Tour  
  Lisbon to Evora by Train and Bus  
  Lisbon to Evora by Car  
Sintra The three palaces of Sintra and the area's natural parks are the Lisbon region's biggest attractions.  
Cascais A lively beach town, famous for its high-society shenanigans during the early 20th century.
Estoril A slightly quieter beach town with a picturesque castle.
Cabo da Roca The most westerly point in Portugal, Europe, and Eurasia.
SintraThe train from Lisbon to Sintra takes about 40 minutes from the Rossio Station and costs about 5€ for a round trip. 
Cascais and EstorilTake the scenic train line from the Cais do Sodre Station to both destinations. The journey takes about 40 minutes and costs under 2.50€.
Cabo da RocaTake the 403 bus from either Cascais or Sintra. Buses run every hour.

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Best Overall: Valverde Hotel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Immaculate service and decor that manages to be both stylish and welcoming."
Best Budget: Residencial Florescente — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"An enviable city center location for a fraction of the price of other hotels in the same vicinity."
Best Boutique: Santiago de Alfama — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Housed in a lovingly restored 15th-century building on a quiet cobbled street in Lisbon’s historic district."
Best for Families: Martinhal Lisbon Chiado Family Suites — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"The ideal choice for families that don’t want to sacrifice style for convenience."
Best for Romance: Altis Belém Hotel & Spa — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Discover a haven designed for seduction."
Best Luxury: Olissippo Lapa Palace — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Transports you to an era of grandeur and grace."
Best for Nightlife: Bairro Alto Hotel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"The hotel is a party destination in its own right."
Best Business: Corinthia Hotel Lisbon — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"The ideal place to host a corporate event."
Best Hostel: Lookout Lisbon! Hostel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Sample sangria for free or swap stories over communal Portuguese dinners."
Courtesy of Valverde Hotel
With an unbeatable location on iconic Avenida da Liberdade, it’s easy to see why Valverde Hotel is rated by TripAdvisor as the best hotel in Lisbon. Expect immaculate service and decor that manages to be both stylish and welcoming, blending contemporary artworks, antique furniture and rich fabrics. Each room has its own bold color scheme, in addition to a private balcony, a TV and free high-speed Internet. In particular, Suite Avenida and Valverde Suite tempt with atmospheric sloped ceilings and beautiful rooftop views.
Breakfast is included in your room rate. Enjoy fine Portuguese cuisine at Sítio de Valverde restaurant amidst high ceilings and 13th-century paintings. Classic cocktails are served each evening and live jazz accompanies the hotel’s weekly Sunday brunch. If you prefer eating al fresco, head to Pateo - a charming outdoor space by the heated swimming pool best loved for its Five o’clock Tea. The Valverde Hotel experience is completed by a long list of extra facilities, including in-room massages and tours on the hotel yacht.
Courtesy of Residencial Florescente
Situated in between the Coliseum of Lisbon and Foz Palace, three-star Residencial Florescente offers an enviable city center location for a fraction of the price of other hotels in the same vicinity. The service is friendly and the colorful floral decor is a welcome alternative to the soulless whites and beiges of your standard budget chains. Rooms are clean, comfortable and conveniently accessed via an elevator. You’ll have a private bathroom, air-conditioning and a flat-screen TV.
Rooms come in twin, double or triple configurations. If you find yourself with a few Euros to spare, you can splurge on a Superior Room with a small separate living room. Free Wi-Fi is a bonus for budget travelers, and with breakfast included in your room rate, you’ve got one less meal to save for. The hotel’s cheerful on-site restaurant serves regional favorites for lunch and dinner. There’s also a gourmet shop, so you can stock up on picnic ingredients.
Courtesy of Santiago de Alfama - Boutique Hotel
Housed in a lovingly restored 15th-century building on a quiet cobbled street in Lisbon’s historic district, Santiago de Alfama exudes elegant charisma. You can walk to Lisbon Cathedral and São Jorge Castle in a matter of minutes, and with just 19 rooms and suites, the service is wonderfully personal. Rooms are uniquely decorated in luxe shades - think dazzling white, subtle gold and peacock blue. Standard amenities include free Internet, premium TV channels and rain shower bathrooms.
Choose one of six suites for extra touches ranging from free-standing baths to beautiful Tagus River and Alfama views. Audrey’s Café serves a mouthwatering breakfast, while A Fábrica de Santiago restaurant uses the freshest local ingredients to create Portuguese culinary masterpieces. In the evening, head to Manny’s Bar for sumptuous seafood and wine pairings. Other amenities include a beauty bar and massage parlor, as well as tours to iconic attractions in Sintra and Nazaré. 
Courtesy of Martinhal Lisbon Chiado Family Suites
Martinhal Lisbon Chiado Family Suites offers a convenient city center location within easy walking distance of Camões Square. Bright, modern decor manages to be both fun and sophisticated - making this the ideal choice for families that don’t want to sacrifice style for convenience. Choose from 37 one and two-bedroom apartments, each with family-friendly facilities (high chairs, washing machines and bunk beds).
There’s a kitchenette for self-catering, as well as a separate living room with cozy furniture, free Wi-Fi and a large TV. When you don’t feel like cooking, head to M Bar Family Café instead. A Baby Concierge helps you find fun things to do together in the city, but when you feel like exploring alone, the Kids Club allows you to do so. Equipped with games, toys and books, the club stays open until late and often hosts pajama parties.
Courtesy of Altis Belem Hotel & Spa
Altis Belém Hotel & Spa is located a 15-minute drive west of the city center in the historic riverfront suburb of Belém. The decor is minimalist, with a monochrome color scheme and design elements inspired by Portugual’s Golden Age colonies. No matter which room you choose, discover a haven designed for seduction with a marble and glass bathroom, Egyptian cotton sheets and a down feather duvet.
Celebrate an anniversary in the Presidential Suite, with its river-view balcony inlaid with a whirlpool tub. There’s a rooftop swimming pool and an award-winning spa with massages, a Turkish bath and Vichy shower rooms. In the evening, toast one another over dinner at Michelin-starred restaurant Feitoria. Atmospheric Bar 38º41‘ promises cocktails, sunset parties and jazz nights on a terrace overlooking the Tagus River.
Courtesy of Olissippo Lapa Palace 
Perched on a diplomatic quarter hilltop near the National Museum of Ancient Art, Olissippo Lapa Palace transports you to an era of grandeur and grace. Set amidst lush gardens, this five-star 19th-century palace offers rooms and suites decorated in a variety of styles, including Colonial and Art Deco. Even the most basic include cable TV, a minibar and a soaking tub with L’Occitane bath amenities.
The most luxurious rooms and suites are located in the Palace Wing, with opulent features ranging from Juliette balconies to original turrets and hand-painted azuleijos tiles. Other luxuries include a spa and an idyllic palm-fringed pool with a pavilion serving cocktails and seafood in the summer. Dine beneath sparkling chandeliers at Mediterranean Lapa Restaurant, then listen to live piano music at Rio Tejo Bar.
Courtesy of Bairro Alto Hotel
Bairro Alto Hotel is located on the edge of Lisbon’s bohemian Bairro Alto district, putting its famous bars and nightclubs within easy reach. With its bright yellow exterior and trendy modern decor, the hotel is a party destination in its own right. Cosmopolitan Café-Bar BA hosts DJs and live music every evening; while rooftop BA Terrace boasts one of the best views in the city. Watch Tagus River sunsets while sipping cocktails and listening to chill out music. After a late night, sleep well in a room or suite with a pillow menu, double-glazed windows and a luxury bed. The fitness center allows you to detox, while Flores do Bairro restaurant revives your party spirit with tasty Portuguese cuisine.
Courtesy of Corinthia Hotel Lisbon
A 15-minute drive from Lisbon Airport, Corinthia Hotel Lisbon lies within the capital’s business district. It’s the ideal place to host a corporate event, with 16 flexible meeting rooms and professional planning and catering services. A business center and free Wi-Fi add to its appeal. All rooms include an HD TV, a work desk and coffee-making facilities, but upgrade to one with Executive Club access for perks such as complimentary breakfast and two private boardrooms. Enjoy fine Portuguese fare at Tipico restaurant or network with new clients over a drink at Tempus Lounge. There’s also a gym, a spa and an indoor pool.
Courtesy of Lookout Lisbon Hostel
Sandwiched in between lively Bairro Alto and charming Príncipe Real, Lookout Lisbon! Hostel is the ideal choice for backpackers on a budget. It’s also a great place to make friends, thanks to a list of activities (think walking tours, surf lessons, pub crawls and beach trips). Sample sangria for free or swap stories over communal Portuguese dinners. Dormitories with shared bathrooms include code-protected doors, lockers and privacy curtains. You can hang out in the common room or cook in the kitchen. Free breakfast and free Wi-Fi help to keep the costs down.
  Best Overall: Valverde Hotel  
  Best Budget: Residencial Florescente  
  Best Boutique: Santiago de Alfama  
  Best for Families: Martinhal Lisbon Chiado Family Suites  
  Best for Romance: Altis Belém Hotel & Spa  
  Best Luxury: Olissippo Lapa Palace  
  Best for Nightlife: Bairro Alto Hotel  
  Best Business: Corinthia Hotel Lisbon  
  Best Hostel: Lookout Lisbon! Hostel  
The city of Lisbon offers a wide array of fun activities and great tourist attractions during the daylight hours. But when the sun goes down, the city really shines with a fabulously varied and robust nightlife scene. There’s much to choose from in the evening, as Lisbon is home to many cool bars, clubs, live music venues, and restaurants. So, if you’re into checking out the local culture, the Portuguese capital doesn’t disappoint. When visiting Lisbon, be sure to enjoy a few exciting nighttime activities in the city: 
Lisbon boasts a cool and entertaining bar scene throughout the city. These diverse watering holes range from traditional and historic to modern and hip. When you’re planning to sip a few drinks at a bar, keep in mind that most places are very casual, laid-back and friendly. As a bonus, it’s also not unusual for the bars to serve customers a small plate of complimentary snacks (such as olives or chips) to accompany the beverages.
Several great bars in the city are:
Skybar – Offering one of the most stunning panoramic views in the city, the chic Skybar is situated atop the luxury Tivoli hotel. With a sprawling terrace as well as plenty of indoor space, Skybar also serves food as well as delectable cocktails.
MiniBar – This whimsical yet modern bar/restaurant created by famed chef Jose Avillez, is not to be missed when visiting Lisbon. Cocktails are surprising and delightful, and the accompanying molecular gastronomic specialties are purely magical.
Red Frog – This hip speakeasy-style bar features exceptionally crafted cocktails made with fresh ingredients. You need to ring the doorbell before you are allowed inside -- and their secret room adds extra intrigue.
Lounge - Popular with the locals, Lounge is a laid-back, roomy bar with a chill, neighborhood vibe. It tends to get busy on weekends, so it’s best to arrive on the early side if you wish to enjoy a cocktail without a big crowd. 
Fabrica Musa – This craft brewery in the Marvila neighborhood (dubbed “Lisbon’s beer district”) features a spacious taproom with great ambiance and a vast array of brews, from crisp lagers to hoppy IPAs.
The slow, melancholic sound of Lisbon’s famous fado music spills out of tiny bars and venues throughout the city, and it’s well worth planning a night around this centuries-old musical style. This is unique to Portugal, and it’s a cool experience that you won’t want to miss.
There are dozens of tiny fado places to choose from — just follow your ears — or head to O Povo, which has free weekday shows from 8 pm featuring a number of up-and-coming performers. To ensure an authentic experience, avoid the ‘fado and dinner’ packages that are advertised throughout the Bairro Alto and Alfama neighborhoods. Instead, pick an unassuming local spot, and you’ll be rewarded with lower prices, good food, and a more authentic experience.
Tip: To gain a more thorough perspective on the music, visit the Fado Museum in Alfama ahead of time, to learn more about the history of this unique soulful sound.
Lisbon clubs are hopping all year long. So, whether you’re after the best international DJs, old-school pop, hip hop or anything in between, Lisbon’s clubs have you covered.
Unlike the casual bars in town, the more exclusive nightclubs have strict dress codes and door policies, with some requiring reservations ahead of time. No matter which club you're planning to visit, dress to impress, don’t expect anywhere to be open before midnight -- and prepare to party until the sun comes up.
A few hot spots include:
The Music Box - This popular venue is located the busy red-light district of Cais do Sodre. You can dance ‘till dawn at this legendary favorite, as it is famous for staying open the latest.
Dock’s Club - A hip destination that’s situated down near the bridge in Alcântara, Dock’s Club gets very busy in the summer and is known for attracting a younger crowd.  
Sabotage Club – If you want to rock ‘till you drop, this is the place! This hard rock club in the Cais do Sodré district shines a spotlight on rock, indie, power pop, punk and more. Check the schedule for their weekly live music.
Lux - This posh dance club is located on the waterfront. It’s considered high-end with prices to match. 
Although Lisbon doesn’t attract as many internally-known acts as larger cities like Madrid or London, there are still many fantastic musical options around town. As with anywhere else, reserve in advance for a popular show, because aside from the larger MEO Arena, most venues are relatively small, so tickets often sell out quickly.
One must-visit venue is Lisbon’s stunning opera house, Teatro Nacional de Sao Carlos, which is located in the Chiado neighborhood in the heart of the city. Music by famous composers (such as Wagner, Mozart, Stravinsky) is regularly performed in this tiny but beautiful, theater that dates back to the 1700s.
While it’s possible to book online, you can usually get seats for all but the most popular shows just by showing up at the box office a few days in advance. If you’re staying at a hotel, your concierge may be able to help obtain tickets if needed.
Tip: Like most concerts, select a few music venues in advance of your visit. You never know which singer or band may be in town!
There are several festivals in Lisbon held throughout the year, and one of the largest is the Feast of St. Anthony that takes place every June. During the month, locals celebrate Festas de Lisboa with the excitement and festivities peaking on June 12, which is the actual feast day of Lisbon’s patron saint. You can’t miss the celebrations. Neighborhoods and streets are decorated and there are live music and entertainment around the city – that go until the early morning hours on weekends. You will also find a seemingly endless assortment of local culinary delights – including the famous grilled sardines – being cooked up outdoors under massive tents.
Note: Hotels often book up months in advance during this popular festival.  
Similar to other southern European countries, the nightlight action in Lisbon kicks off very late. So, unless you’re dining in the more touristy spots, many restaurants don’t open until 7:00 PM, and won’t start getting crowded for an hour or two later.
The local Lisbon bars are packed until well after midnight -- and clubs don’t start hopping until at least 2 AM.
Lisbon is a busy city, especially in summer, so if you have your heart set on a specific restaurant or club, be sure to make a reservation. 
Tipping is not expected. Locals usually “round up” their bill and leave the change for the server or bartender.
Busses and trams in Lisbon are on different schedules, so some stop running earlier than others. (All stop at midnight). But no worries! Uber and taxis are plentiful in Lisbon.
Be sure to leave your drinks in the bar. Aside from the designated festival areas, it’s illegal to walk around Lisbon with an open container of alcohol.
Lisbon can get chilly at night, even in summer. Remember to take a light sweater or jacket with you. 
  Bars   
  Fado music venues  
  Nightclubs   
  Concerts  
  Festivals  
  Tips for going out in Lisbon   
Lisbon, the charming capital of Portugal in southern Europe, is known for its colorful buildings and great hillside views. Visitors enjoy taking nearly 150-year-old trams and guided walking tours through cobblestone streets, along with exploring historic UNESCO World Heritage Sites such as towers and monasteries. Another popular activity is catching a performance of fado, a type of Portuguese folk music played live at local restaurants and venues. Checking out diverse neighborhoods and tasting local specialties like port wine and sweet pastel de Belém tarts are additional reasons to not miss this beautiful city.
Julian Elliott Photography / Getty Images
One of the most iconic Lisbon attractions is its historic trams, which have been an integral part of the city's transportation system since 1873.
Tram 28: This wooden tram is one of the most popular and best deals, taking you past most of Lisbon's best sights. See neighborhoods Bairro Alto and Chiado and the cathedral as the tram climbs up to Alfama. You can stay on until the last stop or get off near St. Jorge castle.
Hop-On-Hop-Off Tram: Get on and off as you like while checking out nine stops at beloved Lisbon areas like the downtown Baixa district or the gardens at Estrela Park. The tram includes an audio guide in 12 languages.
Beware of pickpockets, especially on crowded trams and at exit points.
Sylvain Sonnet / Getty Images
Found in the downtown area of Baixa, the Praça do Comércio (Commerce Square) is Lisbon's most regal plaza. It boasts striking yellow buildings as well as the impressive Arco da Rua Augusta, which leads to Rua Augusta, one of the city's largest shopping avenues. Across from the arch is the Tagus River.
The tourist office in the square is a great first stop for picking up a map and orienting yourself while in Lisbon. Also in the Praça do Comércio is ViniPortugal, where you can enjoy free tastings of wine from different regions of the country.
Lindsay Taclof
With so much to see, a guided walking tour is an excellent way to get acquainted with the city's top places, while you learn about the capital's history and local culture.
For a three-hour overview of Lisbon's main sights, including the most historic district of Alfama, Praça do Comércio, and more, enjoy a walking tour that includes a ride on the historic tram, a pastel de nata (pastry tart) and other snacks, and a wine tasting.
Lindsay Taclof
Since 1837, the Pastéis de Belém pastry shop has been making delicious pastel de Belém—Portuguese custard tarts sprinkled with cinnamon—using an old recipe from the Jeronimos Monastery. Though they may look very similar to the ones you'll see throughout Lisbon, these tarts are of a much higher quality and can be bought freshly baked (the shop is open daily), sometimes topped with cinnamon and sugar. The tarts taste best when eaten immediately.
Sylvain Sonnet / Getty Images
Near the Pastéis de Belém is the Mosteiro dos Jeronimos (Jeronimos Monastery), a famous tourist attraction and UNESCO World Heritage Site. This monastery is impressive on the outside, and the inside (with Manueline workmanship) houses the remains of some famous Portuguese people, most notably the explorer Vasco de Gama.
Guided tours are available by reservation outside of regular hours. Also, if you have purchased a Lisboa Card, entry is free.
Hiroyuki Ito / Getty Images
Fado, a form of Portuguese folk music, tends to be a mournful and emotional ballad, but other styles can be more fun; catching a show is a classic Lisbon attraction.
Most fado performances take place in restaurants (which may require a reservation), clubs, or other venues, often in Alfama or Mouraria. Tasca do Chico in Bairro Alto and Alfama has fado shows (confirm their schedule to be sure).
Gautier Houba
Lisbon's oldest district survived the catastrophic 1755 earthquake, maintaining its old cobblestone streets and structures, a stark contrast with the more spacious modern city.
Alfama is home to some of the city's best mirodouros (lookout points). One of these is located at Castelo San Jorge, a medieval moorish citadel that sits on top of Lisbon's highest hill.
You can reach Alfama by the famed historic tram 28, passing Lisbon's cathedral on the way, which is especially useful if you would like to avoid walking uphill.
Lindsay Taclof
The most famous wine in Portugal is port: a sweet, fortified wine, and visitors can try it in Porto, the city where the drink was created, about a 3-hour drive north of Lisbon. Head to Vinhos do Douro e do Porto, which offers a tasting room, wine shop, and guided lab tours on weekdays.
Other popular wines include the fortified madeira, muscatel made from muscat grapes, vinho verde (a light slightly-sparkling wine), and ginja, a sweetened liqueur that infused with sour cherries, widely available in Lisbon, most famously at A Ginjinha.
The Portuguese Food and Wine Tour is an ideal way to learn; you'll walk through Lisbon streets and explore the wine, port, and other drinks, and do plenty of food tasting at pastry and cheese shops, and beyond.
  Gautier Houba
Bairro Alto is party central. From Bica at the bottom end to the area around Travessa da Queimada, you'll find nightlife for most tastes. And it's not just for the young—there are restaurants and fado shows too.
Bica runs along the Bica Funicular railway line and has many bars that have more of an indie/alternative feel to them. Try a beer or a caipirinha (the national cocktail of Brazil). Further up into Bairro Alto, many venues offer live music. Partying usually goes pretty late with people spilling out into the streets, creating a festive, fun atmosphere in Lisbon's (usually) nice weather.
Jean-Pierre Lescourret / Getty Images
Walking distance from the Baixa district lies Chiado, a neighborhood with a popular shopping and cultural district with theaters and museums. A Brasileira (The Brazilian Lady Cafe), one of the area's oldest and most beloved cafés, is where intellectuals including the poet Fernando Pessoa used to hang out; a bronze statue of the writer sits at an outdoor table.
From the Miradouro de São Pedro de Alcántara, check out the nice views of Baixa, the Tagus River, and the São Jorge Castle on the summit.
Alexander Spatari / Getty Images
A UNESCO World Heritage Site, the five-story Belém Tower (Torre de Belém) was built between 1514 and 1520 by the Portuguese architect and sculptor Francisco de Arruda on the Tagus River. One interesting feature of the Lisbon landmark is the rhinoceros gargoyle.
The tower, closed Mondays and certain holidays, is free to anyone with a pre-purchased Lisboa Card.
Leonie von Hausen / Getty Images
One fun thing to do is explore the region around Lisbon. The most often visited is Sintra, a resort town about a 35-minute drive from the capital. The Palacio Nacional da Pena is a major tourist attraction not to be missed; the brightly colored palace displays 19th century Romanticism architecture and is surrounded by a lush forest and amazing views. Area parks such as the Sintra-Cascais Natural Park on the Portuguese Riviera—with a stone-age burial chamber, dunes, and other historical and natural sites—are worth viewing as well.
Joe Daniel Price / Getty Images
Many enjoy a visit to Cascais, an approximately 45-minute drive from Lisbon, for a taste of a charming coastal fishing resort with 19th-century architecture. The historic center has cobblestone streets and fancy mansions, and the town is home to medieval Fortress Nossa Senhora da Luz de Cascais built in 1594. Tourists also enjoy the Palácio da Cidadela de Cascais (Cascais Citadel Palace), the former home to the governor of the citadel, which opened as a museum in 2011.
Brent Winebrenner / Getty Images
Art lovers in Lisbon may want to see The Museu Nacional do Azulejo, a museum all about azulejos, traditional Portuguese decorative ceramic tiles dating back from the 15th century to modern pieces. Housed in the former Madre de Deus Convent, the museum has temporary and permanent exhibitions, as well as a restaurant and cafeteria onsite.
The museum is closed on Mondays and on specific holidays.
Horacio Villalobos / Getty Images
Besides being a lovely spot for people watching, the Time Out Market Lisboa at Mercado da Ribeira in the Cais do Sodré neighborhood has something for everyone. It's got over 25 restaurants ranging from Portuguese to pizza to burgers, and several shops and bars. There are also longtime market vendors of fruit, meat, fish, flowers, and more, along with live music and cooking classes.
 Ride a Historic Tram 
 See the Beautiful Praça do Comércio 
 Take a Walking Tour of Lisbon 
 Delight in a Sweet Pastel de Belém 
 Visit the Mosteiro dos Jeronimos 
  Go to a Fado Show  
 Catch a Great View in Alfama 
  Try Port, Vinho Verde, and Other Alcoholic Delights  
 Experience Nightlife in Bairro Alto 
 Stroll Around Chiado 
 Appreciate the Torre de Belém 
 Do a Day Trip to Sintra 
 Check Out Coastal Cascais 
 Learn About Traditional Tilework 
 People Watch at Time Out Market Lisboa 
As Portugal's capital and largest city, Lisbon is well connected to the rest of the country, making it a good jump-off point to explore the rest of the country.
Lisbon has a good metro system that connects with the train and bus stations below.
If you plan on using Lisbon's public transport more than a couple of times a day, you may want to get a day ticket or buy the Lisboa Card.
The trains to and from Sintra, Cascais, and Estoril are also included on the Lisboa card, as is discounted or free entry to just about every attraction in Lisbon.
The Aerobus takes you from the airport to Praça Dom Pedro IV (Metro: Rossio) or to Cais do Sodre train station. Tickets cost around two euros.
If your destination is Estoril or another nearby beach town, there are direct buses from the airport.
Lisbon has two main trains stations, Santa Apolonia and Gare do Oriente. Many trains passing through stop at both stations, so keep that in mind when booking or checking timetables.
There are a few smaller stations throughout Lisbon that serve a few specific destinations, which are listed below.
There are several bus stations in Lisbon, but the one you are most likely to need is Sete Rios.
  Lisbon Public Transport  
  Bus From the Airport  
  Lisbon Train Stations  
  Santa Apolonia Train Station  
  Gare do Oriente Train Station  
  Rossio Train Station  
  Cais do Sodre Train Station  
  Entrecampos Train Station  
  Sete Rios Train Station  
  Lisbon Bus Stations  
  Sete Rios Bus Station  
  Gare do Orient Bus Station  
  Terminal Campo Grande Bus Station  
  Campo das Cebolas Bus Station  
Where is it? In the city center, in the Alfama district (Av. Infante D. Henrique)
Metro Station: Santa Apolonia
For travel to? Trains to Spain and northern and central Portugal.
Where is it? Near Parque das Nacoes (Ed. Gare do Oriente, Piso 1 - Av. D. Joao II)
Metro Station: Gare do Oriente
For travel to: International (Spain and France), national and suburban destinations (Azambuja). Also a bus station.
Where is it? Central Lisbon (Rua 1º de Dezembro)
Metro Station: Rossio
For travel to: Sintra
Where is it? at the Tagus river, Downtown (Baixa), (Praça do Duque de Terceira)
Metro Station: Cais do Sodre
For travel to: Cascais and Estoril
Where is it? Just north of central Lisbon (Rua Dr. Eduardo Neves)
Metro Station: Entre Campos
For travel to: Alfa Pendular, intercity and regional trains throughout the country. Fergus commuter rail to Setubal.
Where is it? Just northwest of central Lisbon (Rua Prof. Lima Bastos)
Metro Station: Sete Rios
For travel to: Mainly to northern suburbs. Fertagus commuter rail to Setubal. Also a bus station.
Where is it? Rua das Laranjeiras (northwest of central Lisbon)
Metro Station: Sete Rios
For travel to: Long-distance national travel and international travel. Rede Expressos, Eva and Internorte depart from here.
Where is it? Near Parque das Nacoes
Metro Station: Gare do Orient
For travel to: Northern Portugal and Spain. Bus companies that depart from here include Renex, Internorte, and Avanza. Also a train station.
Where is it? North of central Lisbon
Metro Station: Campo Grande
For travel to: Northern Portugal. Mafrense and Barraqueiro Oeste buses depart from here.
Where is it? Alfama (Av. Infante Dom Henrique)
Metro Station: Terreiro do Paco (5-minute walk)
For travel to: Some Renex buses may stop at this more central location on the way to Gare do Orient.
There's plenty more to see in Portugal than just Lisbon. Let local experts show you the best of the country. All of the guided tours on this page depart from Lisbon, lasting anywhere from half a day to eleven days long. Sample some of Portugal's many different types of wine, see the country's important religious sites and explore lesser-known Portuguese cities.
There are several great day trips to take when in Lisbon. Probably the most popular tour is to Sintra, along with Cascais and the Estoril coast but you could spend a whole day in Sintra.
Many of Portugal's best sights are a short drive from Lisbon. Sintra, Cascais, Fatima, and Obidos are all close to the capital. So there are unsurprisingly several short tours you can do to explore these places.
There are two two-day tours, one where you use your own accommodation in Lisbon and another where you stay the night in Fatima. Or explore further afield with a three-day tour.
Guided tours from Lisbon aren't restricted to trips around Portugal. There are now some tours that reach Spain. Either spend a few days in the Spanish capital, with a day in Toledo ​or take a longer tour and visit southern Spain's most famous cities too.
There are two four-day tours from Lisbon for you to consider: Lisbon, Sintra, Cascais, and Estoril Coast. This tour is great if you planned on taking guided tours while in Lisbon and a day trip to Sintra, Cascais, and Estoril.
You could book your own accommodation and guided tours while in Lisbon and then book one of the day trips to Sintra from above if you wanted more independence, but you probably couldn't top the value of this tour, especially the convenience and time saved by letting the pros do it for you! Four nights of accommodation in Lisbon is included in the price.
This four-day tour goes a little further afield. The Algarve, Portugal's southern coast, has some of Europe's nicest beaches. It also has many interesting sites and history that aren't always explored. Why not take a few days while in Lisbon to go explore the Algarve, and places in between. Stops include Lagos, Sagres, Evora, Beja, and Setubal.
This tour is the greatest hits of northern Portugal. The region has it's own form of Fado (from Coimbra) and is home to Port, the famous fortified wine. Why not head north and discover your favorite type of Port by visiting Porto's port cellars and enjoying a tasting or two?
This tour is called the best of Portugal for a reason. It hits much of the north, and in addition to the cities covered in the above six-day trip, it also goes to the Douro Valley, home to the beautiful vineyards of the Douro wine and Port. It also takes you to all the popular towns in the Lisbon and you also make your way to the beautiful Algarve coast.
This best of Portugal and Spain covers the central southern points of the Iberian Peninsula. It includes stops in Lisbon, Evora, Algarve Coast, Seville, Granada, Cordoba, Madrid, Valencia and ending in Barcelona. You could easily extend your time in Lisbon or Barcelona, should you want to explore these wonderful cities more in-depth.
  Day Trips from Lisbon  
  Short Tours of Central Portugal from Lisbon  
  Visit Madrid and Andalusia from Portugal  
  Four-Day Portugal Tours from Lisbon  
  Southern Portugal and the Algarve Coast  
  Six-Day Trip to Northern Portugal, including Porto  
  Eleven-Day Tour of Portugal  
  Fifteen-Day Trip of Portugal and Spain  
The port town of Faro, in Portugal's Algarve region, is a regular arrival point for visitors to Portugal. The sunny shores of the Algarve attract many flights bringing tourists in search of summer fun. But Portugal is culturally rich and worth exploring, and Faro is the perfect jumping-off point to explore Lisbon as well. The capital also attracts a lot of summer tourists and boasts an array of interesting attractions. You can also book Portugal tours from Lisbon and take day trips from both Lisbon and Faro.
If you are only flying to Faro to take a train to Lisbon, consider going via Porto instead—its connections with Lisbon are better, and the city and its surrounding wineries are a vibrant destination in the summer. 
The train is a little quicker than the bus between Faro and Lisbon, but it's also a bit more expensive. If you don't mind the bus, you could make your choice based on which station is closest to your hotel in Lisbon. Faro is so small that which type of transportation you choose won't affect the convenience of your departure from there one way or another. 
There are two types of trains that go from Lisbon to Faro. The trip takes just under three hours if you take the fast train, called the Alfa Pendular, or three hours and 45 minutes if you take the Intercidade. They cost about the same.
The bus from Lisbon to Faro, like the Intercidade, takes about three hours and 45 minutes but costs a bit less than the train. You can book a bus ticket from Rede Expressos or RENEX. Both bus companies offer comparable prices and journey times. 
Check this list of Lisbon train and bus stations and Faro train and bus stations to help you find the quickest route.
If you like road trips and would like to have the convenience of a car to make stops along the way and during your stay in Lisbon, driving might be your best option. The trip from Lisbon to Faro takes about two hours and 45 minutes by car and is about 280 kilometers, or 175 miles, traveling mainly by the A2 road. The A2 is a toll road, and this could push your travel costs up significantly. But if you don't particularly care about having a car in Lisbon and unless you're traveling with a full car, you might find it cheaper and easier to travel by bus or train.
While it might be a more expensive option, the drive is scenic, and it gives you the option of stopping in Evora and the Alentejo wine regions.
You can take a flight from Lisbon to Faro, but it will cost you many times the price of a train or bus ticket. Flights take 45 minutes, but when you add on the time it takes to get to and from the airport and check-in time, the difference in the amount of time the two options take diminishes.
  The Best Way to Make the Journey  
  Train and Bus: Cheap and Convenient  
  Car: Scenic, But Beware of Toll Roads  
  Plane: Most Expensive but Quickest Choice  
Among the largest metro regions in Europe, Lisbon is the capital city of Portugal, which has steadily developed a reputation as a center of gay-friendliness and tolerance - in 2010, Portugal legalized gay marriage. In late June, GLBT persons from throughout Portugal come to the capital for Lisbon Gay Pride. The date this year of the Lisbon Pride Parade (Marcha do Orgulho LGBT) is Saturday, June 18, 2016, from 5 pm onward, at Jardim do Principe Real.
Then the following weekend, on Saturday, June 25, from 4 pm until 4 am, the Lisbon Pride Village (Arraial Lisboa Pride) is the site of gay bars, entertainment, and more.
A few weeks earlier, in late May, the city also holds a Lisbon Bear Pride, a six-day event hosted by bear bar TR3S Lisboa. Festivities include dance parties, bar nights, pool & sauna, contests, and more. The dates this year are May 25 through 30, 2016.
Lisbon Gay Resources
During Pride, gay-popular bars, restaurants, hotels, and shops in the area have more going on than usual during Pride week. Check online resources about the Budapest gay scene, such as the Lisbon Gay Guide at Patroc.com, and the Go Lisbon Gay Guide. Also take a look at the excellent visitor site produced by the country's official tourism organization, the Turismo de Portugal.
Portugal is one of the most affordable countries in Western Europe, and unsurprisingly, Lisbon one of its most affordable capitals. As a result, it’s easy to experience some of the best the city has to offer without putting much of a dent in your bank balance, whether you’re traveling on a budget or not.
From castles and museums to tours and beaches, eating, drinking and more, here are ten things worth doing in Lisbon that’ll set you back less than ten euros.
Gautier Houba / © TripSavvy 2018
Lisbon’s castle is pretty hard to miss, perched at the top of a hill downtown above the old Alfama neighborhood. It’s a steep 20-30 minute walk up to the entrance, but once you’ve persevered, you’re treated to some of the best views in the city.
For those who’d prefer not to navigate the maze of streets, tuk-tuks, trams, and taxis can get you there without the burning calf muscles.
Dating back to the 11th century, and now a National Monument, your €8.50 ticket gives you access to the grounds, including walking along the old defensive walls. Expect long lines at peak times, but there’s plenty of space once you’ve made it inside.
Be sure to wear appropriate footwear, especially if there's any rain in the forecast. The cobbled streets can get quite slippery when wet, and your feet will be less sore at the end of the day regardless of the weather.
 Gautier Houba / © TripSavvy 2018
Lisbon’s nostalgic trams are as famous as its hilly streets, and the two things go hand in hand for weary tourists and locals alike.
The most scenic line is the #28, which starts in Martim Moniz, then rattles its way on a loop through the city and out to the Campo de Ourique neighborhood, taking in many of the city’s main attractions along the way.
You’ll pay €2.90 if you buy a ticket from the driver, but to save time and money, get a single or day pass from a nearby metro station instead. They're significantly cheaper, and you won't be the person holding up a long line of people as you fumble for change when you enter.
Don’t forget to validate your ticket when you get on board, expect large crowds in summer, and keep an eye on your belongings—pickpockets are known to operate when the tram gets busy.
If you'd like a less-crowded journey, try taking the tram in the reverse direction (ie, from Campo do Ourique back to Martim Moniz.) You'll see all the same things, but often won't have to share it with quite as many people.
A visit to a tile museum doesn’t sound very exciting—but this is no ordinary tile museum.
Azulejos, the beautiful blue Portuguese tiles, can be found on buildings throughout Lisbon (and the rest of Portugal), and the Museu Nacional do Azulejo does a great job of displaying and explaining five centuries of tile history.
Entry is a reasonable five euros, and you can expect to spend a couple of hours exploring the temporary and permanent collections. The museum has released a free app, which also functions as an audio guide in Portuguese and English, and there's even free Wi-Fi in the lobby to download it.
It’s a roughly 20-minute walk from Santa Apolonia train station, at the bottom of the Alfama neighborhood, or you could take a quick taxi from further afield.
Kiosks (or quiosques in Portuguese) are everywhere in Lisbon, especially in parks, squares, and other public spaces. These small booths typically offer inexpensive drinks and snacks, and you’ll find locals making full use of them throughout the year.
Whether you’re after a quick coffee before continuing with the sightseeing, or a more leisurely glass of beer or wine as the sun starts to set, grab a drink, find a table, and enjoy the experience. With an espresso as little as 60 cents, and a large wine often just a couple of euros, there’s no reason not to!
You’ll almost always order at the counter, although staff may occasionally pass by and ask if you’d like another drink if things aren’t too busy.
Gautier Houba / © TripSavvy
 Despite its hills, Lisbon is a very walkable city, and several free tours have popped up to help visitors do exactly that. One of the most popular is run by Sandemans, typically a couple of times per day.
Departing from the central Largo de Camões square, the three-hour tour winds around the Alfama, Bairro Alto and Chiado neighborhoods, explaining the buildings and history along the way. Unusually for free tours like this, you can book a spot online ahead of time, and they run almost every day throughout the year.
Even though you’re not charged for the tour itself, the guides get paid via tips, so be sure to give them an appropriate amount at the end if you enjoyed the experience.
  Gautier Houba / © TripSavvy
Perched on (or at high tide, in) the Tagus river, the small Belém Tower was once the gateway to the city for ship traffic, as well as an important part of its defenses.
It opens at 10 a.m., and it’s worth getting there around that time – lines get longer throughout the day, and with only a single narrow staircase to get up to the top, they don’t move particularly fast either.
Once you’ve made it up to the viewing area, though, you’ll be rewarded with great views of the river and city, and out to the Atlantic.
You’ll pay €6 for an adult ticket, although you can also buy combination passes that give access to other attractions in the area, including the imposing Jerónimos Monastery.
After climbing up and down those 200+ steps in Belém Tower, you’ll likely have worked up an appetite. Fortunately, the original and best pastel del natas in the city are just a few minutes away, at Pastéis de Belém.
These delicious Portuguese egg tarts have become well-known around the world, but until you’ve had one from the source, you haven’t truly experienced this glorious sweet treat. Expect long lines most of the day, although you’ll get served faster in the late evening, or shortly after opening.
The tasty snacks cost a little over a euro each, although if you can get away with only buying one, you’ve got more willpower than me. If you can’t make it out to Belem, you’ll pay a similar amount at other bakeries in the central city.
  Gautier Houba / © TripSavvy
Sure, you can take a cruise to explore the Tagus River estuary that divides Lisbon from Almada, but it’s not particularly budget-friendly. For a much cheaper, albeit shorter trip on the water, jump on one of the commuter ferries that cross backwards and forwards several dozen times a day.
The easiest journey runs from Cais do Sodré to Cacilhas, and costs a little over a euro each way. The best part is the views back towards Lisbon, but once you’ve arrived, you can check out a restored Portuguese sailing ship, or jump on a direct bus to the beach at Costa da Caparica or the famous Criso Rei (Christ the Redeemer) statue.
Other Tagus ferry options include a quick trip from Belem to Trafaria, or longer journeys on fast catamarans that cost a little more.
For a European capital, Lisbon is fortunate to have several high-quality beaches within easy reach of the city center. Whether you’re traveling by train, bus, tram or ferry, you’ll only pay a few euros for a return ticket to either Cascais or Costa Caparica.
Once you’re there, lay your towel out and enjoy the sunshine and crashing waves for a few hours. When you get peckish, there are dozens of food and drink options right beside the ocean, with cheaper options further back from the water.
If you’re on a budget but prefer your beaches a little less busy, take advantage of the free bike here outside the train station in Cascais, and pedal out to Praia do Guincho instead.
No matter which patch of sand you opt for though, don’t forget the sunscreen. The Portuguese sun is strong, and the regular ocean breeze means you often won’t feel yourself burning until it’s too late!
The Portuguese food scene is greatly underrated — the country has some of the best seafood in the world, and local chefs take full advantage of it. As an example, there are supposedly more recipes just for salted cod than there are days in the year!
While Lisbon has its fair share of high-end restaurants (including several with Michelin stars), and plenty of tourist places that’ll charge a small fortune for mediocre food, it’s easy to find delicious, filling meals for well under ten euros.
Keep an eye out for the magic words ‘menu do dia’ (menu of the day) outside small, unassuming restaurants as you wander away from the tourist hotspots.
Typically, you’ll get a starter or dessert, plus a substantial, often seafood-based main dish, along with water, wine and an espresso coffee, for around seven or eight euros. For tasty food on a budget in Lisbon, you just can’t go past it.
 Visit São Jorge Castle 
 Jump on the Famous 28 Tram 
 Check Out the National Tile Museum 
  Grab a Drink at an Outdoor Kiosk  
  Take a Walking Tour of the City  
 Climb Belém Tower 
  Eat a Pastel de Nata  
  Get Out on the River  
  Head to the Beach  
  Fill Your Stomach With a Menu do Dia  
Lisbon is the capital of Portugal, and an excellent first stop on a journey to visit the Andalusian province's capital city of Seville in Spain. Fortunately, Lisbon is located just 400 kilometers (250 miles) from Seville, making travel between the two major cities on the Iberian peninsula relatively easy.
After you're done experiencing the culture of Lisbon, you'll want to head to Seville, which offers an entirely different currency and culture, serving as the center of government for the autonomous southernmost region of Spain.
Because of the relatively close distance between Lisbon and Seville, there are several ways to get between them, including by bus, plane, train, and car. However, the best way to really experience the most of your trip is to drive between them and take in some other cities and sights along the way.
Setting out from Lisbon by car, you'll want to head east toward the Portuguese city of Evora before continuing eastward to the Spanish city of Mérida then south toward Seville. The entire journey will take about five hours driving, but you'll want to plan an extra day or two for your trip if you truly want to enjoy these additional cities.
Evora is the capital of Portugal's Alentejo wine region and also has some great Roman ruins as well, and Mérida has Spain's best-preserved Roman ruins with an amphitheater in such good condition that local actors still put on performances there.
Although the "coastal" route sounds nice, there are no major highways close enough to Portugal's coast to really see anything and no major cities to experience along the way. However, if you have several weeks to complete your journey, this may be a preferred route for someone trying to get a small taste of the local culture of this southwestern region of Portugal.
The most direct way to get between Lisbon and Seville by public transit options is through the bus services run by ALSA. The bus route from Lisbon to Seville takes seven-and-a-half hours, and ALSA also runs buses from Lisbon to Evora, Evora to Mérida, and Mérida to Seville if you want to see the same cities as you would by driving without renting a car for yourself.
Unfortunately, there are no trains directly from Lisbon to Seville, but if you have a rail pass and prefer to travel by train, there are trains from Lisbon to Madrid and from Lisbon to Salamanca, which both offer train service to Seville (from Spain). Alternatively, you can take a train from Lisbon to Faro then take a bus from Faro to Seville.
There are cheap flights from Lisbon to Seville (with TAP Portugal), and the flight only takes one hour. This is the most convenient way to get between Seville and Lisbon but is still more expensive than the other two. Additionally, you entirely miss out on all the sights between these two old cities by flying over them.
  The Best Way to Get There  
  Other Means of Transportation  
