Ljubljana, the Slovenian Center:
Slovenia's capital city has one of the least ethnically diverse populations of all capital cities in Europe, so you're sure to get the authentic Slovenian experience here. While you can easily get around by train or by bus, the city is small and compact enough to explore on foot.
Bridges in Ljubljana:
Bridges are much-photographed architectural masterpieces in Lubljana. They have been used for centuries, in previous forms, to cross the River Ljubljanica. The Triple Bridge, or Tromostovje, consists of a main bridge and two parallel bridges originally intended for pedestrians. The Shoemakers' Bridge is near the Old Square and once was a gathering place for the city's cobblers.
Old Town of Ljubljana:
The Old Town of Slovenia's capital holds historic treasures. From the Fountain of the Three Carniolan Rivers (which sprung from the inspiration of Bernini's Fountain of the Four Rivers), to Baroque and Roccoco architecture and superb churches, there is plenty to see during your first, familiarizing stroll.
Ljubljana Castle:
Perhaps less grand in scope than other European castles, Ljubljana Castle is still good for a look. It was used intermittently for extra housing and jail cells, so much of what you see is not original. However, the view from the clocktower is worth the climb--you can snap panoramic views from the city from there.
National Gallery in Ljubljana:
Located at the end of Cankarjeva ulica is the Slovenian National Gallery, which houses both Slovenian and European art. Kick off the tour with the medieval collection. From there, you can travel through Baroque, Neoclassical, Beidermeir, Realist, and Impressionist styles.
Museums in Ljubljana:
The Museum of Modern art has contemporary works and hosts various exhibitions. Both housed in the same building a short distance away from the Museum of Modern art are the National Museum and the Natural History Museum. You can also visit the interesting Tobacco Museum, which details the history of tobacco at the Ljubljana factory and has a nice gift shop for souvenirs.
Other museums include the Brewery Museum, the Architectural Museum, the Museum of Modern History, the Slovene School Museum, and the City Museum. Ljubljana also has botanical gardens and a zoo.
Archeology in Ljubljana:
The Slovenian capital sits on a site that has long been inhabited. The Lubljanica River has unlocked many secrets about the people who once lived in that area, and weapons, armor, and pottery that have been found in the riverbed can now be seen at the National Museum. The marshes have also kept archeological secrets, preserving items of interest for up to 5000 years.
