Lucerne is located in central Switzerland, on the shores of Lake Lucerne, surrounded by the Swiss Alps, notably Mount Pilatus and Rigi. With its placid water and towering alpine vistas, Lucerne embodies what tourists think of when they hear "Switzerland." Lucerne has a population of just under 60,000 people. Lucerne is in the German-speaking part of Switzerland.
Lucerne has a central rail station with frequent connections to other locations in Switzerland and some international destinations. Lucerne doesn't have an airport; Zurich International Airport is the most frequently used by travelers to the area.
The Lucerne Card, available for durations of 1, 2 or 3 days, offers free public transportation within Lucerne and discounts on many other museums and attractions.
The Hotel Des Balances is highly rated for its riverside location and service. Lake Lucerne is a delightful recreation area, and if you like rural alpine chalets with views of the mountains down to the sea you might enjoy a Lake Lucerne Vacation Rental.
Lucerne has a small medieval center to get lost in--and there are many museums to visit.
You can take a lake steamer across Lake Lucerne, have lunch on the ship, or take a cable car up Mount Pilatus on the world's steepest cogwheel, or get a panoramic view of Lucerne canton from Mount Rigi.
Of course, you can just stroll around the medieval core of Lucerne and cross the wood-covered Chapel bridge first constructed in the 14th century, then see the city ramparts and climb up the watchtowers.
There are also organized coach tours that can take you from your hotel in Lucerne into the Alps. Viator's top Lucerne tour takes you to the Jungfraujoch at 11,333 feet, the top of Europe.
In August the Summer Night Festival (Luzernfest) is celebrated with music and stands around the lakeside as well as fireworks. The famous Blue Balls Festival is a music festival held in July with lakeside venues.
  Getting to Lucerne  
  Discount Card  
  Where to Stay  
  Museums and Attractions  
  Other Attractions  
  Summer Events  
Glacier Garden (Gletchergarden)
Swiss Transport Museum - 20,000 square meters of transportation history and technology.
Modern Art Museum.
Richard Wagner Museum
Lucerne Historic Museum (Historisches Museum Luzern)
