Here is a map of Luxembourg. Luxembourg is the "lux" in Benelux, which includes Belgium and the Netherlands. Luxembourg shares borders with France, Germany, and Belgium.
Luxembourg is small. It's 51 miles long and 32 miles wide, with a population of fewer than 500,000 people.
Luxembourg has lots of rivers; the most important being the Moselle, the Sûre, the Our, and the Alzette.
Here is a map showing the regions of Luxembourg of interest to the visitor.
The Ardennes region consists of mountains that extend from southeast Belgium. The area is lush and green, with forests and rolling hill country. You'll find some compelling castles in this region, like Vianden Castle.
The Luxembourg City Area includes Luxembourg's capital, a city of 78,000 people.
The Mullerthal is sometimes called "Little Switzerland." It features sometimes bizarre rock formations, creeks and waterfalls, and unique vegetation.
Red Rocks, Les Terres Rouge, was named after a rich iron mining area, now full of abandoned quarries. Nature has reclaimed much of the space and now the region is dotted with hiking trails, many of which explore the local geology.
The Moselle region is one of the great white wine regions in the world.
One of the biggest values in tourist discount cards might be the Luxembourg Card. Individual or family cards are available, and offer free and reduced admissions to many attractions, as well as free use of the trains and buses on the national public transport network.
Detailed information on the Luxembourg Card is available from Visit Luxembourg.
Luxembourg has an excellent road system. As in the rest of Europe, country roads can be narrower than folks in the U.S. might be used to, but maintenance is excellent. Fuel is cheaper in Luxembourg than in surrounding countries and considered by some to be the cheapest in Europe. All highways are free in Luxembourg. You must wear your seatbelt.
A road map of Luxembourg is published by Michelin
Luxembourg has an extensive rail and bus network. CFL, or the Chemins de Fer Luxembourgeois features electrified railways and buses covering the whole country. A rail map is available.
Rail and Bus travel is free with the Luxemburg Card. A Benelux Tourrail Pass can be used on the railways and bus routes as well.
The national air carrier of Luxembourg is Luxair. The Luxembourg International Airport is ​Findel Airport, located 4 km northeast of Luxembourg City.
If you're visiting Luxembourg as part of a larger European itinerary, this list of distances to popular European tourist destinations should come in handy.
Trier, Germany: 40.7 kmDinant, Belgium: 113 kmLiege, Belgium: 131 kmKoln (Cologne), Germany: 160 kmKarlsruhe, Germany: 177 kmBrussels, Belgium: 187 kmFrankfurt, Germany: 190 kmBasel, Switzerland: 252 kmParis, France: 287 km
  Luxembourg Regional Map and Luxembourg Card Information  
  The Luxembourg Card  
  Luxembourg Transportation - Getting Around in Luxembourg  
  Driving in Luxembourg  
  Trains in Luxembourg  
  Air Travel In Luxembourg  
  Distances From Luxembourg City to Other Tourist Destinations  
Weather and when to visit: Weather in Luxembourg is moderated somewhat by the sea some 200 miles to the north. Summers can be warm. There are about 10-13 rain days each month. It is wetter in the north. Best time to visit Luxembourg? Springtime, when the wildflowers bloom in profusion.
Currency: Luxembourg uses the Euro.
Languages: "Lëtzebuergesch" or Luxembourgish is the national language. It is taught in schools, but French and German are also spoken widely and are considered the "official languages." French is the administrative language. English is common, especially in larger villages and tourist destinations within Luxembourg.
