Milan, Italy, is served by three main airports. Milan Malpensa International Airport (MXP) is the largest and handles the most long-haul international flights. Milan Linate (LIN) is closest to the city center and serves mostly flights from within Italy. Bergamo (BGY) is located well outside Milan but is a busy hub for flights going to and from other points in Europe and the UK.
Whether you're arriving at Malpensa, Linate or Bergamo, you should be aware of each airport's differences when booking your tickets – sometimes the cheapest ticket or the best schedule can have you flying into one airport and out of a different one, or involve a long transfer into the city.
Milan Malpensa Airport is the largest of Milan's airports, with nearly 25 million passengers passing through in 2018. It's also the second-busiest airport in Italy, after Rome Fiumicino. At present, all flights from the United States to Milan come into Malpensa. It's also a hub for British low-cost carrier EasyJet. The airport has two terminals; T2 is used exclusively by EasyJet, while all other flights to and from Milan go through T1.
Malpensa is located approximately 32 miles (52 kilometers) from central Milan. Unless you are loaded down with a lot of luggage, taking public transportation into the city from the airport is easy, cheap, and convenient. Regional trains—operated by Trenord—run every half hour from Malpensa to Milano Centrale. Tickets can be purchased through Trenitalia and cost 13 euros. There are also trains every 30 minutes to Milano Cadorna, a smaller train station that is in the center of Milan. The fare is also 13 euros. From either Milano Centrale or Milano Cadorna, travelers can walk; catch a taxi, tram; or bus; or take the Metro to other parts of the city.
There are also buses (both public and private) and shuttles offering direct service from the airport to various points in Milan. The transport link on the official airline website has information on the various ways to get to and from the airport.
Bergamo's Orio al Serio International Airport—also known as Il Caravaggio International Airport, or simply Milan-Bergamo—is Milan's second airport. Its prominence and traffic, with about 12 million passengers a year passing through, are thanks largely to budget carrier Ryanair, which uses the airport as a hub for flights throughout Europe and the UK.
The airport has a single, busy terminal and no direct train access to Milan. Five bus operators offer service from the airport to points in central Milan, all of them charging around 6–7 euros. There's also a bus company that offers transfers to ski areas in the Trentino Dolomites region.
Milan Linate Airport serves more than nine million passengers per year, most of them flying on Alitalia flights within Italy. The Rome-Milan route is especially popular with business flyers, who can quickly access the city from this close-in airport.
The single-terminal airport does not have a direct train link to the city, though one is currently under construction. Instead, travelers can take the #73 bus from Milan's Piazza Duomo to Linate, with a travel time of 60 minutes and a cost of 1.50 euros. The Linate Shuttle service runs buses from Milano Centrale to Linate every half hour, with a 25-minute journey time. Tickets are five euros one-way.
The SEA airport authority, which operates Milan Malpensa and Linate airports, offers the Milan Airports app, available for Apple and Android.
 Milan Malpensa Airport (MXP) 
 Milan-Bergamo Airport (BGY) 
 Milan Linate Airport (LIN) 
  Get the App  
Location: Ferno, a suburb about 32 miles (52 kilometers) northwest of Milan
Best If: You are flying internationally and are fine with accessing the city or airport via public transit.
Avoid If: You don't want to take public transportation into Milan, but you also don't want to spend on a pricey cab ride into the city. 
Distance to Milano Centrale train station: A taxi to Milan's main train station can take about 45 minutes, depending on traffic. The set fare to the station is 78 euros, with possible surcharges for excessive baggage and night and weekend trips. Taxis from MXP to the center of the city cost about 95 euros.
Location: Just outside Bergamo, about 30 miles (50 kilometers) east of Milan
Best If: You're flying a budget carrier or heading to Lake Como, the Italian Alps, or the Ticino region of Switzerland.
Avoid If: You want to access the airport via train. 
Distance to Milano Centrale: A taxi to Milano Centrale will take 45 to 90 minutes, depending on traffic, and cost at least 75 euros.
Location: Linate, just outside the city center
Best If: You're flying within Italy or on another short-haul flight.
Avoid If: You need to fly outside of Europe.
Distance to Milano Centrale train station: A taxi to Milan's main train station can take about 20 minutes, depending on traffic. The fare will average around 40 euros. 
Milan, the second-largest city in Italy, is best known as Europe's capital of high fashion and design, and as a center for banking and finance. But beneath its skyscrapers and past its high-end fashion outlets, Milan is full of historic and artistic attractions. Among the most famous are its Duomo, which is the largest Gothic cathedral in the world, Leonardo da Vinci's iconic The Last Supper painting, and the famous La Scala Opera House. Travelers to Milan will find a fast-paced, glamorous city with a thriving cultural scene and a top city for shopping.
Best Time to Visit: Milan can be very hot and humid in the summertime, and winters are moderately cold and often rainy and foggy. Snow is common during the coldest winter months. Spring and fall are generally off-seasons in Milan, except during Milan Design Week in April and Fashion Week in September or October.
Language: Italian is the primary language spoken in Milan, though you will find that the majority of hotel and restaurant staff will speak English, as will retail staff in touristy areas.
Currency: Like the rest of Italy, Milan is on the euro (€). No other currencies are accepted.
Getting Around: Milan has very good public transportation, including buses, trams, and an extensive metro system. There is no need for a rental car in Milan, especially since traffic is heavy and parking is scarce and expensive.
Travel Tip: Milan is not known for being the most affordable city in Italy, but we do have some tips for visiting Milan on a budget and some great free things to do in Milan.
Milan offers something for just about any traveler's interest, from world-class art museums, important landmarks, and, of course, shopping galore. The small historic center is primarily between the Duomo and Castello and offers many of Milan's top attractions. Here is what you can expect to find:
Located in northwest Italy in the Lombardy region, Milan is about 30 miles south of the Alps. It is very near the Italian Lakes region, including Lakes Como and Maggiore. From Milan, Rome is reachable on a fast train in just over 3 hours and Venice in 2 1/2 hours.
Typical of northern Italy, Milan's cuisine is heavy on butter and other dairy products, as well as rice, and polenta, made from cornmeal. Two famous traditional Milanese dishes are risotto alla milanese (a creamy rice dish made with saffron) and cotoletta alla milanese (breaded veal cutlet). Milan's restaurants range from traditional, homey eateries serving hearty fare to fashionable, high-end restaurants offering modern Italian cuisine. Milan is famous for aperitivo, the Italian equivalent of happy hour, where snacks are served, often free of charge, with your before-dinner drink. As in the rest of Italy, there's a craft cocktail boom in Milan, with skilled bartenders offering original and elaborate quaffs all over the city.
If you want to stay near La Scala, the Duomo, and shopping district, there are several top-rated historic center hotels. There are a lot of accommodations conveniently clustered near Milano Centrale train station, ranging from budget B&Bs to higher-end hotels. For more of a local feel, choose a boutique hotel or short-term rental in the Navigli district, known for its charming canals, designer and resale shops and lively nightlife scene. Ultra-modern hotels have sprung up in the Porta Nuova/Isola area, which is anchored by the innovative Bosco Verticale, two high-rise buildings with gardens and trees covering their facades.
Shopaholics will surely be tempted by the top quality clothing, footwear, and accessories that seem to be everywhere in Milan. Try Corso Vittorio Emanuele II near Piazza della Scala, via Monte Napoleone near the Duomo, or Via Dante between the Duomo and Castle for name brand and one-off designer fashions. For super high-end labels, try the area around Via della Spiga called the Quadrilatero d'Oro. Corso Buenos Aires has many chain stores. Markets are held around the canals of the Navigli and are a great place to find used and vintage designer clothing.
Milan has two airports. Malpensa, to the northwest, is a big international airport, while smaller Linate airport to the east serves flights from Europe and within Italy. Nearby Bergamo Airport also sees flights from the rest of Europe. There are direct flights to Malpensa from the U.S. cities of New York/Newark, Miami, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Chicago.
The main train station is Milano Centrale at Piazza Duca d' Aosta, with frequent daily links to major cities in Italy and western Europe.
While all of Italy is a little less casual than typical cities in the United States, you'll find that Milanese really do dress sharply, as if living up to the city's reputation as a fashion capital. So here, perhaps more than anywhere else in Italy, it's a good idea to try to blend in and dress a little bit less casually—try lightweight slacks and a polo shirt instead of shorts and a t-shirt, for example. In the evening, dress up a bit for dinner, and of course, if you're planning to attend an opera or concert.
Like most Italian cities, Milan is safe and violent crime is unusual. However, you should always exercise a reasonable degree of caution against pickpockets, especially in crowded tourist areas like the Piazza del Duomo and the Duomo itself, and even among the crowds who file through to stare at The Last Supper.
  Planning Your Trip  
  Things to Do  
  What to Eat and Drink  
  Where to Stay  
  Shopping  
  Getting There  
  Culture and Customs  
The church of Santa Maria della Grazie contains Da Vinci's famous fresco, The Last Supper. Although the building was bombed in 1943, the fresco survived. To visit, it is necessary to book in advance. 
The Duomo, as the Basilica cattedrale metropolitana di Santa Maria Nascente is more commonly known, is the world's largest Gothic cathedral and the third-largest church in Europe. Its much-photographed piazza is the hub and focal point of Milan. Be sure to climb the stairs or take the elevator to the top for views of Milan from the Duomo rooftop and a close look at the Duomo's spires.
La Scala is a very famous Italian opera house seating over 2000 people. Built in 1778, it has a very opulent interior, which you can tour. There's also a museum. For opera-lovers, attending a performance here is a bucket-list experience.
The imposing Castello Sforzesco was originally built in the 14th century by the ruling Visconti but was destroyed and rebuilt by the Sforzas soon afterward. It became a museum complex in the 19th century and is one of Milan's major landmarks.
Milan is 358 miles north of Rome. Italy's largest international airports are in Rome and Milan so travelers often need to get between these cities quickly. Here are tips to help you travel easily between the cities of Rome and Milan.
Frequent trains run between Rome Termini and Milano Centrale train stations. A few fast trains also leave from Roma Tiburtina station.
The fast Frecciarossa trains make the trip from Rome to Milan in as little as 2 hours, 55 minutes although some take longer. Intercity (IC) trains take 6 hours, 40 minutes but cost much less. You'll need to reserve a seat but you don't need to change trains to get between Rome and Milan. Trains leave from early morning (currently 6 AM) until about 8:20 PM. Later solutions and other routes require a change of train in at least one station.
You can check current Rome to Milan schedules and ticket prices on the Trenitalia website. People in the US may find it easier and more convenient to buy tickets ahead of time through Select Italy - go to Select Italy train tickets page to make reservations and buy tickets direct.
Italy's privately owned high-speed rail line, Italo, also offers train service from Rome's Ostiense and Tiburtina stations (not Termini) to Milan's Porta Garibaldi station (not Centrale).
Airport shuttle buses found outside the train station run directly to Milan's two airports (be sure to get on the right bus - Malpensa or Linate. Milan's metro system connects the train station to other parts of Milan. See a Milan Transportation Map for more about the metro and airport transportation.
Milan has two airports, the larger Milan Malpensa with many international flights and the smaller Milan Linate with flights mainly from other parts of Italy and Europe. Buses connect both airports with Milan central train station and trains also run directly from Malpensa to Milan train stations.
There are flights between Rome and Milan airports but when comparing time and cost with train travel, keep in mind that you'll need transportation to and from the airports so unless you're starting at one of the airports, flying is probably not a good choice.
If you are traveling by car, the A1 autostrada runs between Rome and Milan and the trip can be made in about 5 1/2 hours. Driving in Rome and Milan is not recommended, however, and the city centers are off limits to non-resident drivers. If you're arriving by car, try to choose a hotel that has parking and is not in the historic center.
More Rome Transportation - How to get from Rome to Civitivecchia, Rome airports, and other cities in Italy.
  How to Get from Rome to Milan by Train  
  How to Get from Milan Train Station to Milan Airports or Milan Historic Center  
  Flying to and from Milan Airports  
  Driving Between Rome and Milan  
  Where to Stay in Milan  
  Visiting Milan  
  Where to Stay in Rome  
Find Car rentals through Auto Europe
Top-Rated Milan Historic Center Hotels
Milan Travel Guide
How to See the Last Supper in Milan
Top Milan Sights and Attractions
Top Rated Historic Center Hotels
Hotels Near Termini Train Station
Milan, Italy is famous for its renowned attractions like the Duomo and Leonardo da Vinci's The Last Supper, as well as for being one of the fashion capitals of the world. But it's also Italy's second-largest city (after Rome), meaning that it's crowded and fast-paced at any time of year, with tourist crowds peaking in the hot summer months. While the city is worth visiting all year, the absolute best time is during the spring when the weather is cooler (though sometimes rainy) and the crowds are smaller.
In general, choosing the best time to visit Milan depends on what you're looking for during your stay. If you want to visit the city's landmark attractions, it's best to visit in the spring, when the weather is cool and the crowds are thinner. Winter in Milan is cold and grey, though there are far fewer crowds. Fall is rainy and chilly but also less crowded—except during September fashion week when the city is sold out. Summertime in Milan is great for festivals, but it's also very hot and crowded.
Located in northern Italy and surrounded by mountains to the north and rivers on three sides, Milan has four distinct seasons and a humid, subtropical climate. While it's humid year-round, in summertime the moist air is accompanied by high temperatures, which sometimes reach into the high 90s Fahrenheit and occasionally higher. In the wintertime, that humidity translates to cold, foggy days and nights, and snow and sleet are not unusual. Spring and fall bring cooler temperatures, but also Milan's rainiest months.
Like elsewhere in Italy, the weather in Milan is increasingly unpredictable as a result of climate change. Though temperatures are generally getting warmer, the city and surrounding region are still subject to unseasonable cold snaps and sudden, violent thunderstorms. While seasonal trends are largely reliable, it's still best to prepare for a little bit of everything, which means packing a light, compact jacket in the summer months and layers for winter, to shed in case it's unseasonably warm.
If you visit Milan in June, July, or August, you'll find it crowded with tourists. While the crowds are still nothing like the peak levels found in Florence and Venice during these months, you'll find long lines at attractions and booked up hotel rooms. Plan well in advance for a visit to Milan in the summer, including booking your tickets to see Leonardo's Last Supper or to access the roof of the Duomo. Also be aware that in September and February, Milan holds its Fashion Week events, so it will be difficult to impossible to snag a hotel room unless you've book far, far in advance.
Milan hosts leisure and business travelers year-round, so seasonal closures at hotels, restaurants or attractions are virtually unheard of. That said, Milanese try to escape the summer crowds and heat in August, when most Italians take their vacations. You might find more tourists than locals in the city this month, as well as some businesses closed for vacation for a week or more. Tour providers may run fewer tours in winter months, but chances are if you're interested in a city tour or food tour, you'll be able to find a tour that suits you any time of the year. Tourist attractions will remain open year-round, with the exception of December 25 and January 1, when virtually every attraction will be closed. Some attractions will close on Easter Sunday, all of Holy Week, or the entire week between Christmas and New Year's Day.
While hotel prices in Milan are in line with other major cities in Italy and vary based on demand, there are brief periods when prices will peak—namely Fashion Week, Design Week (early April), Christmas and Easter. For saving money on flights and hotels, winter is the best time to visit. Fall and spring, while not as affordable as winter, are also better times to find bargains. Remember that all these rules go out the window if there's a fashion or design event—be sure to check dates of these events before booking an off-season stay.
Apart from the aforementioned fashion and design events, Milan's most important events mirror those of the rest of Italy—Christmas and Easter. In December, the city takes on a magical feel, with streets strung with glittering lights, store windows filled with decorative displays and piazzas aglow with lights, nativity scenes, and other festive decor. A Christmas market at Piazza del Duomo is a perennial favorite, and holiday concerts take place in churches and event venues all over the city. In April or late March, concerts, masses, and other events related to Holy Week and Easter are held at the Duomo, La Scala opera house, and other venues.
January is one of the coldest months in Milan, with daily temperatures ranging from an average high of 36 to 52 degrees Fahrenheit (2 to 11 degrees Celsius) and the possibility of sleet or snow. You'll want to dress warmly (layers are always best) and plan on temperatures dropping significantly after sunset, which will be around 5 p.m. 
Events to check out:
February weather is consistent with January—cold and overcast, with the possibility of snow or freezing rain, though the sun might break through the clouds during your stay.
Events to check out:
March is a finicky month in Milan, with mostly cold weather and even the possibility of a late-winter snowstorm. But you might also get some bright and sunny days, though there will always be a nip in the air.
Events to check out:
Average daytime temperatures climb into the 60s Fahrenheit, making April a great month to visit Milan. Expect a mix of sunny and rainy days, and pack accordingly.
Events to check out:
Milan warms up in May, with average high temperatures in the 70s Fahrenheit perfect sightseeing weather—and lows in the 50s Fahrenheit. May is also one of the rainiest months in Milan, so pack rain gear.
Events to check out:
Crowds and temperatures both start to increase in Milan this month, though the early part of June should still see pleasant temperatures. Pack an umbrella and a lightweight jacket.
Events to check out:
During hot and humid July, prepare for daytime temps to arrive well into the 90s Fahrenheit or higher. Plan to spend the hottest part of the day resting or inside a cool museum.
Events to check out:
August is traditionally the month when Milanese head to the sea or nearby lakes for their annual vacations, so you may find some stores and businesses closed, though most attractions will remain open. Like July, August is hot. Temperatures in the high 90s Fahrenheit are not unusual.
Events to check out:
September temperatures start to cool down, with daytime highs typically in the 70s Fahrenheit. It's also a very busy month in Milan, as people return from summer holidays and breath new energy into the city. But a few big events can mean sold-out hotels and packed restaurants. 
Events to check out:
October is one of the best months in Milan in terms of temperature and crowds, but also the rainiest. Still, if you can put up with the wet weather, you'll enjoy easy access to the city and its attractions.
Events to check out:
Expect cold, damp conditions in November and pack accordingly. If you can stand the weather, this is a good time to visit in terms of finding hotel bargains and having a lot of elbow room in the city's museums and other attractions.
Events to check out:
Milan takes on a festive air in December, with Christmas displays and markets, and lights strung across its main streets. Be prepared for cold weather and the possibility of snow.
Events to check out:
  Weather in Milan  
  Crowds in Milan  
  Seasonal Attractions and Businesses  
  Prices in Milan  
  Key Holidays and Events in Milan  
  January  
  February  
  March  
  April  
  May  
  June  
  July  
  August  
  September  
  October  
  November  
  December  
New Year's Day will see most stores, restaurants and tourist attractions closed. If you plan to dine out this day, check with your hotel to find an open restaurant.
La Befana, or Epiphany, on January 6
Men's Fashion Week (Winter) is usually the second week of January.
Milan Fashion Week (Winter) sees catwalk events all over the city, plus even more models, designers, photographers, fashionistas, and celebrities crawling the streets of already-fashionable Milan.
​Carnivale may fall in February, depending on the date of Easter.
If Carnevale didn't fall in February, it will take place in March.
Holy Week, the week leading up to Easter, will see masses and processions throughout the city.
Easter and Holy Week, if not in March
Design Week, officially the International Furniture Fair, takes place in mid-April, when designers, craftspeople and design companies descend on Milan to display the latest designs and innovations in the world of home furnishings and fixtures. 
Festa della Liberazione, or Liberation Day, on April 25 is a national holiday marking the end of World War II. 
Labor Day, May 1, is a national holiday and a number of stores and businesses may be closed.
Milan Food Week in early May sees pop-up restaurants, food trucks and stands, and food-focused events all over the city.
Men's Fashion Week (Spring) takes place in early June, so book your hotel room early.
Estate Sforzesca, a series of outdoor concerts and theatrical events, takes place at Castello Sforzesco.
Estate Sforcesca continues this month.
Ferragosto, August 15, marks the quasi-official end to the summer holidays. Expect some closures, but also a party atmosphere (more than usual) in piazzas and nightlife zones.
Milan Fashion Week (Fall): Don't even think of showing up to Milan without a hotel already booked, or to dinner without a table reserved.
The Italian Grand Prix, held in nearby Monza, see Formula One fans racing to the city.
Milano Musica is a series of concerts at La Scala and elsewhere that celebrate the wide range of 20th-century music.
​November 1 is All Saints' Day, a public holiday.
Jazz Milano features 10 days of jazz performances at venues across the city.
December 7 sees the Festa di Sant'Ambrogio, Milan's patron saint, the kick-off of the 3-day O Bej! O Bej! festival, and opening night of the opera season at La Scala.
If you're in Milan for New Year's Eve, head to organized or informal concerts and parties in the city's piazzas, or reserve a table for a traditional multi-course New Year's Eve dinner.
Visiting Milan on a budget is a noble goal, but many tourists in Italy are more intent on seeing Venice, Florence, or Rome. Some mistakenly view Milan as just another big city with little to offer beyond a transfer connection to the Swiss Alps or the Venetian lagoon. 
But Milan is one of the world's fashion capitals. It is home to one of the world's most famous works of art. Milan can serve as a hub for visiting other points in northern Italy such as Lake Como or Lugano.
The city is well-connected by rail and air to other major cities in Europe, and budget airline routes. 
The mild climate found further south in Italy is elusive here. Remember that the Alps are only a short distance to the north, and winters can be cold, with occasional snow. May and October are the rainiest months, but the trade-off during those times is mild temperatures and fewer tourists. Summers are warm, with high relative humidity.
The Lombardy region is served by three airports. Pay attention to the arrival and departure airport before booking, because some involve considerable ground transportation expense.
In most world cities, pizza makes for a cheap meal. Milan offers a host of low-cost pizza options, including Mr. Panozzos in the Citta' Studi area. Pizzas that earn good reviews can be purchased at modest expense.
You'll find a host of budget eateries in Milan, but don't forget to save for a splurge or two. Milan offers a wide variety of cuisine, and sampling is part of the experience. Visit a neighborhood trattoria, where you'll find friendly proprietors and lots of neighborhood patrons. Il Caminetto receives good reviews and prices are moderate.
In many Italian cities, hotels near the railroad stations are bargain-priced, and Milan is no exception. But some budget travelers prefer a short jaunt northeast of the city center to the Citta' Studi neighborhood, which features a number of family-owned, no-frills establishments.
Priceline can work well in this city. Be aware that at certain times of year (fashion expos are good examples), the inventory of Priceline rooms in Milan will be scarce. At those times, it's best to skip the bidding and reserve well in advance.
Airbnb is also worth a look. Be sure they're well-connected to public transportation.
Ground transportation in the Milan area is tailor-made for budget travel. This transportation hub is home to five railroad stations and four subway lines. The subway is known as Metropolitana, and it allows the purchase and validation of tickets via smartphone. Rides are inexpensive, and a weekly pass is available at a reasonable cost. Consider that a cab ride into central Milan from Malpenza Airport can cost $100 USD. 
Milan also offers excellent public bus options. Bus #94 continuously circles the center of the city and has attracted more than a few tourists.
BikeMi! is Milan's bike sharing system. A daily subscription is quite reasonable, and there are several hundred stations in the area.
The prominent Castello Sforzesco and its fortifications are clearly visible from the city streets, and only a modest entrance fee is required to explore beyond the gates. This beloved structure, now a cultural icon, was at one time reviled as a symbol of tyranny. Enjoy the colorful stories here on a guided tour as you learn more about the history of Milan. There is much value to be gained here. Don't be afraid to invest at least half a day.
A favorite stop in Milan is Santa Maria delle Grazie, where Leonardo DaVinci's incredible fresco Last Supper is displayed. Seeing this masterpiece requires some planning. Reservations are required, and careful efforts are made to ensure that no more than 30 people are in the viewing area at any given time. You'll also be limited to a maximum of 15 minutes. Purchase your reservation online through Turismo Milano, and be prepared to do so well in advance of your visit. In fact, a standard lead time is about four months. Cutting it any closer might risk disappointment, given the tight limitations on visits.
Guide services offer a bypass of the lines if you're willing to pay more than the cost of the reservation. Given the time investment, it's worth considering. Musement.com offers a tour/line bypass combination ticket.
One of Europe's most photographed buildings is Milan's famed Duomo, which astounds visitors with its artistic facades and spectacularly stained glass windows. Keep in mind that although entry is free, you are not allowed to bring in large bags. You may check your bags for a modest fee. Crowds can be large here, so plan to go early in the day if possible.
Many visitors combine their Duomo visit with a trip to Galleria Vittorio Emanuelle II, just a few steps away. Built in 1865 and restored several times since, this was Italy's first structure made from iron, glass, and steel. It's claimed that this is the world's oldest continually used shopping structure. Budget travelers will find most prices well beyond their means, but window shopping costs nothing.
Milan makes an excellent travel hub for exploring the Lombardy region of Italy. Its rail connections and a larger selection of hotels can be used to your budget travel advantage.
Lake Como is only a short train ride from central Milan. If you can't spend several days there (highly recommended), it can make an excellent day trip.
Brescia also makes a good day trip, offering an outstanding preserved old city and castle. Mantua is part of a UNESCO World Heritage area, featuring renaissance architecture and the fascinating Ducal Palace.
  When to Visit  
  Getting There   
  Where to Eat  
  Where to Stay  
  Getting Around  
  Attractions  
  Beyond Milan  
  More Tips  
Malpensa (MXP) is the largest airport, but it is quite removed (50 km. or 31 mi.) from the city center. An airport train makes dozens of runs across that distance at prices far cheaper than a cab. The station is located in Terminal 1.
Linate (LIN) airport is the closest to the city center, but it is a small, older airport that serves domestic and European routes.
Orio al Serio or Bergamo airport (sometimes called Milan Bergamo) serves a number of low-cost carriers but is 45 km. (27 mi.) from Milan. A bus service connects the two points for a low fare. Bergamo might be your best bet for finding cheap flights. The airport is gaining popularity.
Get a Milano Card: This card is designed to provide a series of discounts on transportation and attractions. Purchase by days spent. The cards are not transferable and operate on an hourly basis. The clock starts with your first public transportation use, as travelers acquire the pass upon arrival at airports or train stations.
Take a walking tour: Milan Free Tour offers a 3.5 hour guided walking tour that can be a great orientation on your first day. Please offer a tip for a good tour.
An aquarium visit for pocket change: The building itself is an architectural wonder, but inside is Milan's aquarium, which you can visit for a very reasonable price. The aquarium is not far from the Lanza subway stop.
Take advantage of Design Week: This occurs in mid-April each year, and although hotels and restaurants might be crowded, there are advantages to visiting at this time. Many places host special exhibits to cater to all the creative out-of-town visitors. 
Consider alternatives to La Scala: Milan is home to one of the world's most famous opera houses, but tickets are scarce and expensive for those who aren't annual patrons. If this is an essential part of your experience, start your search early and be prepared to pay top euro. As an alternative, consider a visit to Serate Musicalli, where low-priced tickets are frequently available and the quality of performance is excellent. 
Here are the top things to do and top tourist attractions in Milan, Italy. You'll find most of these places located on our Milan Transportation Map showing the three Metropolitan lines and major stops of interest to the tourist.
Angelina Pilarnos / TripSavvy
Milan's Duomo, or cathedral, is the largest Gothic cathedral in the world. Construction began in 1386, but it took nearly 500 years to complete. More than 130 spires and over 3,000 statues adorn the Duomo's roof; take an elevator (or climb the stairs) to the rooftop for a close-up view. You'll also catch some magnificent views of the city below. Below, Milan's Piazza del Duomo, the square where the cathedral sits, is the hub of the city's historic center. The square is also home to a statue of Vittorio Emanuele and the Palazzo Reale housing the Duomo Museum and Contemporary Art Museum.
The 15th-century Convent of Santa Maria della Grazie houses Leonardo Da Vinci's famous fresco, The Last Supper. Although the building was bombed in 1943, the fresco survived. To see the iconic mural, you must book in advance, sometimes more than two months ahead of time. 
Angelina Pilarnos / TripSavvy
Milan's castle, Castello Sforzesco, is near the city center and, unlike many castles, you don't have to climb a hill to get to it. The castle is home to several different museums, displaying paintings, furniture, and other cultural and historic artifacts, including works by da Vinci and Michelangelo, including the latter's final sculpture, the Rondanini Pietà. But even if you don't want to visit a museum, the castle is an excellent place to wander around—its courtyard serves as a local park. You can see castle artifacts and architecture details. There's also a collection of musical instruments and the Egyptian and Prehistoric sections of the Archeology Museum.
 
Teatro alla Scala, or La Scala, is one of Italy's top historic opera houses. Renovated in 2004, La Scala first opened in 1778 and has been the opening venue for many famous operas. Attending an opera in La Scala is a top experience for opera fans, but you'll need to book in advance. If you can't make it for a performance, La Scala's museum has a collection of musical instruments and portraits and busts of musicians. You can even view the auditorium from boxes and the backstage area.
Select Italy's Discovering Milan's Masterpieces is a three-hour tour that includes seeing the Last Supper, the Sforzesco Castle and Sculpture Museum with Michelangelo's Pieta, the Cathedral (and rooftop when Last Supper tickets are not available), and La Scala Opera House.
Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II, built in 1867, is a huge glass-roofed shopping arcade lined with elegant shops, bars, and restaurants. Inside are mosaics with the symbols of the cities forming the newly united Italy. Some people consider it good luck to stand on the testicles of the bull of Turin. The galleria is built in a cross-shape and links the squares of the Duomo and La Scala.
Basilica Sant' Ambrogio, one of Milan's oldest churches, is an 11th-century church built on the site of a fourth-century church. Sant' Ambrogio is Milan's patron saint, and you can see him in a crypt along with second-century martyrs. The church is an excellent example of Romanesque architecture and inside are many interesting relics, carvings, and mosaics. Be sure to see the gold altar. 
Milan is known as Italy's top fashion city, and it's an excellent place to shop for designer clothes, shoes, and accessories. Good shopping streets include Via Dante between the Duomo and Castle, Corso Vittorio Emanuele II near Piazza Della Scala, and via Monte Napoleone near the Duomo. For exclusive fashions, head to the area around via Della Spiga called the Quadrilatero d'Oro or Golden Quadrangle that also includes Via Montenapoleone, Via Andrea, Via Gesù, Via Borgospesso, and Corso Venezia. Corso Buenos Aires has less expensive shops and chain stores, many of them even open on Sundays. Of course, if you don't want to spend lots of money, window shopping is entertaining too.
Pinacoteca di Brera is Milan's top art museum, housing a collection of more than 600 works from the 14th through the 20th centuries, including works by top artists such as Raphael, Piero Della Francesca, and Bellini. The gallery was started in the 19th century and is housed in a 13th-century convent. 
When you get tired of museums, crowds, and shopping head to one of Milan's parks. One of the best is Parco Sempione, between the castle and Porta Sempione, which spans 116 acres and is home to an aquarium, a sports stadium, and a medieval castle. Many of the city's best attractions, like the Palazzo dell’Arte, are located in Parco Sempione. 
Milan is central to many fascinating smaller cities and towns as well as to the lakes of Northern Italy and makes an excellent base for visiting them by train. The breath-taking Lake Como is just 30 miles north of the city; you can take a train or drive. The tiny town of Bellagio is well worth a visit: Here you can walk along the lake's shorelines, visit ancient churches, and dine at mom-and-pop restaurants.
Like much of Europe, football (aka soccer to Americans) is tremendously popular in Milan. The city is home to San Siro Stadium, one of the largest in Europe. It's where A.C. and Inter, Milan's two teams, both play and well worth a visit. The stadium can host more than 80,000 people. 
Fans of the eclectic filmmaker shouldn't miss Bar Luce, a café designed by the director for Fondazione Prada. While the café channels the 1950s and 1960s, popular Italian aesthetics inspire the retro furniture and color palette, and you'll see some resemblance's to Anderson's film sets. Don't forget to take an Instagram next to the vintage pinball machine!
This isn't your typical cemetery. Even if you're the type who doesn't care for visiting a graveyard, you owe it to yourself to check out Milan's "Monumental Cemetery." This substantial open-air museum houses hundreds of tombs, including many belonging to some of the country's most important citizens. The designs vary: You'll see everything from four-poster beds to marble pyramids, as families have competed over the years for the most elaborate mausoleum. 
 
 Milan's Royal Palace served as the seat of the city's government for decades and is now an essential cultural center in the town. The palace spans more than 75,000 square feet and hosts a number of various exhibitions each year, showcasing fashion, art, design, and more. It's also home to valuable painting, many on loan from other international institutions. During your visit, see the museum of the palace, which is divided into four different parts of Milanese history: Neoclassical, Napoleonic, Restoration, and Italy's unification. 
This canal-crossed district is irresistibly gritty but is also home to some of Milan's coolest bars, galleries, and restaurants. Visit the Miradoli Arte Contemporanea for a showcase of Italy's best young artists, before having an outdoor aperitivo at Ugo. If you visit the neighborhood on the last Sunday of the month, don't miss the Mercatone dell’Antiquariato (flea market), held along the Navigli Grande. 
Among the oldest buildings in Milan, this church was built in 379 A.D. by St. Ambrose. Today, it's still beautiful, with two large towers flanking the front façade and a series of ornate arches surrounding the central courtyard. Be sure to go inside, where you'll see original mosaics and frescoes.
Many know that da Vinci was a legendary genius, but few places underscore that more than the Leonardo da Vinci National Museum of Science and Technology. The museum features incredible models of cars and flying machines created from his drawings, as well as a robust archive of his blueprints and sketches. 
When you visit the Parco Sempione, you'd be remiss to skip the Torre Branca, an observation tower that stretches more than 350 feet tall. Famed architect Gio Ponti designed the tower, which was built in 1933. Now, you can take an elevator to the top where, on a clear day, you'll not only see the city beneath you, but also the Alps and Apennines.
  Visit the Duomo  
 Go See Da Vinci's Last Supper 
 Tour the Castello Sforzesco 
 Listen to Opera at La Scala 
 Take a Guided Tour of Milanese Landmarks 
  Admire the Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II  
 Visit Basilica Sant'Ambrogio 
  Go Shopping (And Window Shopping!)  
 See Incredible Art at the Brera Picture Gallery 
  Take a Walk in the Parco Sempione  
 Enjoy a Day Outside the City 
  Watch a Soccer Game at San Siro Stadium  
  Have an Espresso at Wes Anderson's Café  
  Visit the Cimitero Monumentale  
  See the Royal Palace of Milan  
  Walk Around the Navigli District  
  Visit Sant Ambrogio  
  Learn About Leonardo da Vinci's Incredible Achievements  
  Head to the Top of the Torre Branca  
April is a good time to visit Milan if you want to beat the high-season crowds, though it can be quite busy around Easter. Daytime temperatures will be somewhat cool and nights will still be quite chilly. Expect a mix of sunny and rainy days. 
A full calendar of festivals and events means you'll find plenty to see and do in April in Milan.
Milan's flower fair is the annual sign that spring has finally arrived. More than 200 vendors from around Italy set up shop for the occasion, creating a riot of color along the Naviglio Grande (canal). The canal is part of the Navigli district, one of Milan's most interesting neighborhoods. The one-day event is usually held on the second Sunday of April.
As in the rest of Italy, Holy Week and Easter in Milan are commemorated with grand masses and other celebrations. The biggest mass of the Easter season takes place on Easter Sunday at Milan's Duomo.
During Holy Week (the week before Easter Sunday), laVerdi auditorium, home of the Symphony Orchestra and Choir of Milan, is the setting for the highly anticipated stagings of the Passions by Bach.
Read more about other  Easter Traditions in Italy. See also Milan in March.
Milan is known as Italy's fashion capital, but it's also the design capital of the country, and many say, of Europe.
During the Salone Internationale del Mobile (International Furniture Fair), more than 1000 designers, craftspeople and design companies from all over the world descend on Milan to display their latest designs and innovations in the world of home furnishings and fixtures. The Salone takes place at Milan's huge convention center FieraMilano located in Rho, an exurb of Milan, and in galleries and workshops in the city. Even if you're not interested in buying furniture, the event is worth attending for the innovative—and sometimes out of this world—designs. And you may get some decorating ideas!
April 25 is Liberation Day, or Festa della Liberazione, marking the end of World War II and the Nazi occupation of Italy. Much like D-Day celebrations in the US and elsewhere, it is also a day that Italy honors its war dead and veterans, called combattenti, or fighters. 
Liberation Day is important throughout Italy but it is especially revered in Milan, as April 25, 1945 was the actual day that the partigiani, or partisans, who formed Italy's resistance movement, liberated the city.
A parade and commemorative rally usually take place in the city, with the action centering around Piazza del Duomo. Most stores and many restaurants will be closed this day, but museums should be open.
Throughout most of the year, the long-standing Fiera di Sinigalia runs every Saturday at the Ripa di Porta Ticinese in the Navigli District, offering well-curated vintage clothes, housewares and bric-a-brac. 
Every Sunday morning, a stamp, coin and printed goods market – one of the largest in Europe – runs on Via Armorari, not far from the Duomo. 
Milan's historic Teatro alla Scala, or La Scala, is one of the premier opera houses in Europe, and seeing a performance there is a treat any time of year. In April, there are periodic of opera and classical music, including some adapted for children. Visit La Scala's website for more information.
Based on the original article by Melanie Renzulli
  Fiori e Sapori flower festival: mid-April  
  Holy Week and Easter: Early April  
  International Furniture Fair: Mid-April  
 Liberation Day: April 25 
  Flea & Antiques Markets: Every Weekend  
  Performances at La Scala: Year Round  
As one of the world's fashion capitals and Italy's most important city for business and finance, Milan is a stylish, energetic, and modern city. Yet it's still endowed with enough historic sites and artistic treasures to keep it attractive to tourists—nearly 10 million of them visit Milan each year. The city sits in the Po River Valley, surrounded by rivers on three sides and the Alps and the Italian lake district to the north. With its low elevation and position between mountains and the Mediterranean Sea, Milan has a humid, subtropical climate. Summers are hot and humid and winters are cold and foggy. Fall and spring tend to be rainy, but also offer the most comfortable temperatures. Regardless of what time of year you visit the city, there is plenty to see, as Milan's many important museums and churches are all-weather attractions.
Fast Climate Facts
Milan is about 2 hours from the sea, so it doesn't benefit from summer sea breezes that cool off cities like Genoa or Pisa. As a result, June, July, and August tend to be very hot and humid, making midday—when temperatures are the hottest—a perfect time to tour a museum. You might spend a few late afternoon hours resting and cooling off in your hotel room before joining hordes of Milanese as they head out for a pre-dinner aperitivo around 6:30 or 7 p.m. Sudden thunderstorms are not unheard of in the summertime, especially in August.
What to Pack: Whatever the season, keep in mind that the stylish residents of Milan dress up a little more than residents of other Italian cities. You'll want to pack lightweight clothes, but leave cut-off shorts, tank tops, and flip-flops at home. Bring nice T-shirts, tailored shorts, and sundresses, as well as lightweight slacks for evenings out. Women should carry a light scarf or wrap to cover bare shoulders when entering churches. Wear sturdy and comfortable sandals for all the walking you'll be doing. On the chance that there's a cool evening, bring a long-sleeved shirt or a lightweight sweater.
Average Temperatures by Month
During autumn, Milan sees a break from the heat and humidity. Though these months are some of the rainiest, they are also the most glorious, making it one of the best (and most popular) times to visit. Daytime temperatures in September are a comfortable average of 76 degrees Fahrenheit (25 degrees Celsius), then steadily drop over the subsequent weeks, to an average high of 51 degrees Fahrenheit (11 degrees Celsius) in November. From September on, evening temperatures can be quite chilly, and have been known to drop below freezing in November.
What to Pack: The familiar mantra to pack and dress in layers rings true in autumn. Long-sleeve T-shirts, a couple of sweaters or sweatshirts, and long pants are in order. You'll likely want a mid-weight jacket in the evenings, as well as a rain poncho or a sturdy umbrella.
Average Temperatures by Month 
December, January, and February are by far the coldest months of the year in Milan, when snowfall and sleet are not unheard of. Average high temperatures rarely crack 50 degrees Fahrenheit (10 degrees Celsius) and nightly lows hover right around freezing level. Cold temperatures and humidity tend to make Milan's already problematic air pollution worse, so asthma sufferers may want to avoid visiting in these months. Expect fluctuations in temperature, as well as a mix of sunny skies and cloudy, rainy, or snowy ones.
What to Pack: Winter in Milan calls for a warm coat, accessorized (you're in fashionable Milan, after all) with a hat, gloves, and a scarf. Pack layer of clothing that you can easily shed if daytime temperatures warm up. Also keep in mind that European standards for heating, especially in old buildings, might not match your expectations—warm pajamas are advised, as is rain gear for drearier days.
Average Temperatures by Month
Spring in Milan sees some of the city's most pleasant temperatures, but also some of its rainiest months. March temperatures can still drop below freezing and snowfall is not out of the question, though this rarely occurs. Things start to warm up slightly in April, and May brings average temperatures of a glorious 72 degrees Fahrenheit (22 degrees Celsius) on average—but it's also one of the rainiest months, second only to October. The moral of the story? Bring layers and a raincoat.
What to Pack: When packing for spring weather in Milan, it's best to plan for a range of cold to mild temps, depending on which month you travel. You'll want to bring an umbrella, a mid-weight jacket, and long-sleeved shirts and long pants. A scarf or similar wrap might be a welcomed addition on chilly nights.
Average Temperatures by Month
  Summer in Milan  
  Autumn in Milan  
  Winter in Milan  
  Spring in Milan  
Hottest Month: July (85 degrees Fahrenheit / 29 degrees Celsius)
Coldest Month: January (30 degrees Fahrenheit / -1 degree Celsius)
Wettest Month: October (4 inches / 101 mm)
June: 79 degrees F / 60 degrees F (26 degrees C / 15 degrees C)
July: 85 degrees F / 64 degrees F (29 degrees C / 18 degrees C)
August: 85 degrees F / 64 degrees F (29 degrees C / 18 degrees C)
September: 76 degrees F / 57 degrees F (25 degrees C / 14 degrees C)
October: 64 degrees F / 48 degrees F (18 degrees C / 9 degrees C)
November: 51 degrees F / 39 degrees F (11 degrees C / 4 degrees C)
December: 52 degrees F / 37 degrees F (11 degrees C / 3 degrees C)
January: 52 degrees F / 36 degrees F (11 degrees C / 2 degrees C)
February: 54 degrees F / 36 degrees F (12 degrees C / 2 degrees C)
March: 58 degrees F / 39 degrees F (14 degrees C / 4 degrees C)
April: 63 degrees F / 45 degrees F (17 degrees C / 7 degrees C)
May: 72 degrees F / 53 degrees F (22 degrees C / 12 degrees C)
Milan, Italy has a modern public transportation system that connects almost all areas of the city, as well as its airports, via a combination of subway lines, trams and buses. The city has five main train stations, four Metro (subway) lines, and an extensive tram network. There's also a suburban rail system that reaches the bedroom cities of Milan. Buses also ply the city, but are most useful for connecting areas outside the city center.
Visitors to Milan intent on sightseeing will be able to get just about anywhere they need to go by way of tram or Metro. Metro is the fastest option, but many travelers prefer trams, in part because they can see where they're going on the above-ground tram cars.
Milan's public transportation services are run by Azienda Trasporti Milanese, or ATM for short. The ATM website has an English-language component, system maps and a route finder tool that lets you chart the best path from points A to B. ATM has an app, ATM Milano Official App, available for smartphones or Apple, that allows you to buy tickets and travel passes and access the system map.
Here are some basic how-tos for using public transportation in Milan:
Milan's largest airport is Malpensa International, located northwest of the city. Malpensa can be reached by train using the Malpensa Express (MXP) from Centrale, Garibaldi or Cadorna stations. Tickets can be purchased online, in person at the airport or train station, or via the ATM mobile app.
Malpensa is also served by bus service to and from Milano Centrale. Malpensa Shuttle departs every twenty minutes. Shuttles also connect Malpensa to the smaller Linate Airport east of Milan.
The majority of sights in Milan are within zones Mi1 and Mi2 and are therefore easily accessible via public transport. Here are the stops for some of Milan's most popular attractions.
Thanks to Milan's geographic position in Northern Italy, coupled with its extensive rail system, it's a convenient point of departure for exploring neighboring countries in Europe or for reaching the rest of Italy. EuroCity trains connect from Milano Centrale to Zurich, Geneva, Bern, and other Swiss cities, and Thello trains offer direct service to Paris' Gare de Lyon station. It's also possible to catch direct trains to Monte Carlo, Monaco, and Nice, France.
Within Italy, Trenitalia and Italo high-speed trains connect to Venice, Bologna, Florence, Rome and a host of other cities.
  How to Use Public Transit in Milan  
  Public Transportation Hours of Operation  
  Getting from Milan's Airports to Central Milan  
  Getting Around Milan  
  Getting Out of Milan  
Milan has four subway lines, called Metropolitana (Metro for short) and identified by signs with a bold "M" and the background color representing the respective lines. The four lines are Line (linea) 1, the red line, Line 2, the green line, Line 3, the yellow line and Line 5, the purple line. Some of the suburban rail lines crisscross the city and are shown in blue on maps.
As of July 2019, tickets for Metro, trams, buses and suburban rail lines within zones Mi1-Mi3 cost €2 and are good for 90 minutes, including transfers.
One and 3-day passes good for unlimited rides in zones Mi1-Mi3 cost €7 and €12, respectively.
The Milano Card travel pass, priced at €11 for 24 hours, €17 for 48 hours or €19 for 72 hours, includes unlimited public transportation access plus free or deeply discounted access to several major museums and attractions.
Tickets can be purchased in Metro stations, at tabacchi (tobacco shops) and newsstands, or via the mobile app. Note that most tabacchi and newsstand vendors will only accept cash for tickets.
On Metro, you need either your ticket or QR code (if you're using the mobile app) to enter and exit the train platforms. On buses and trams, you need to stamp your ticket in one of the machines when you board the vehicle.
The Metro system is largely accessible to wheelchair users and the physically impaired, with escalators, elevators and in some stations, stairlifts to allow passengers to reach the trains. Modern trams are wheelchair accessible though some vintage models are not. For more information, see the ATM mobility page or Accessible Milan.
Metro runs Monday to Saturday from 5.30 a.m. to 12.30 a.m. On Sundays and holidays, it opens at 6.00 a.m. Line M5 closes at 12:00 a.m.
Trams operate from 4.30 a.m. to 2.30 a.m.
Buses operate from 5.30 a.m. to 1.45 a.m.
On Christmas Day and May 1 (Labor Day), all services run from 7 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.
The Castello Sforzesco is directly behind the Cairoli stop.
From the Porta Venezia station, one can easily visit the Museum of Science and Technology, situated in a former monastery.
The Conciliazione station, the first stop west of the Cadorna station, is near the church of Santa Maria delle Grazie, where Leonardo da Vinci's ''Last Supper'' can be viewed.
From the Duomo stop, one can stroll not only the Duomo but through the Galleria Vittorio Emanuele to La Scala opera house.
To reach the popular Navigli neighborhood, head to the Porta Genoa or Piazza P.za Ventiquattro Maggio stops.
Due in large part to its population of young professionals, Milan is regarded as having one of Europe's best nightlife scenes. From bars to discos to divey pubs, locals take their partying seriously. The city may be Italy's capital of fashion and culture, but it also lays claim to another accolade as the best place in Italy for an "aperitivo." The happy hour custom of a drink or two accompanied by tasty snacks, aperitivo might have been invented in the city, but regardless of its origins, it definitely was perfected here and is central to nightlife in Milan.
Aperitivo is the first course in Milan's rich and exciting nightlife scene, which ranges from hipster craft cocktail bars, craft beer dens, and all-night discos to elegant terraces with city views, or jazz clubs hosting premier international musicians.
When it comes to nightlife in Milan there's something for every taste and there are even places where you can bring the kids. Read on for our guide to the best nightlife neighborhoods and venues in Milan.
Here are some of the top neighborhoods for going out after dark in Milan.
For an upscale evening out: Brera. Despite its artsy, shabby-chic appearances, this charming neighborhood north of La Scala opera house draws a fairly refined crowd to its cute sidewalk eateries and wine bars.
Boho hangout for locals: Navigli. Although tourists make it as far out as Navigli, this funky area roped in by two historic canals teems with cool bars and clubs mostly frequented by locals.
For drinks and views to savor: Piazza del Duomo. Classy bars and restaurants line the sidewalks on Piazza del Duomo as tourists and unjaded locals savor the views of the Duomo, Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II, and other landmarks.
Young and up and coming: Isola. Set northwest of Garibaldi train station and away from the touristic center, Isola is hip and a little divey, with a bevy of clubs for listening to live music.
Milan's gay nightlife: Via Lecco. A cluster of LGBT-friendly bars and businesses have earned Via Lecco the tag "gay street." Red Cafe, Leccomilano, and Mono Bar are the anchors here.
For velvet ropes and disco dancing: Corso Como. Don't even bother trying to get into any of the exclusive dance clubs along Corso Como and nearby streets near Garibaldi station unless you're dressed to impress and ready to slip the doorman 20 euros to get you on the list.
  Best Areas for Nightlife in Milan  
  Cocktail Bars  
  Discos and Dance Clubs  
  Beer Pubs  
  Live Music  
  Tips for Going Out in Milan  
Mag Cafè: A Navigli haunt with artfully poured cocktails, a vintage vibe, and good aperitivo snacks.
Radetzky: This classic Milanese bar retains an '80s feel, does a great aperitivo hour, and is kid-friendly—they'll love the hand-cut potato chips.
Dry Milano: Pizza might typically be paired with beer or wine, but at Dry Milano, it's pizza and cocktails in a posh setting—and it works! Near the hotel-laden Porta Nuova and Central Station zones.
GinO12: There's lots to love about Milan's first gin bar, including its industrial-chic Navigli setting, long gin list, and one-of-a-kind cocktails.
Dolce & Gabbana Bar Martini: As sultry and glamourous as a Dolce & Gabbana gown, this sexy bar serves lunch, aperitivo, or Sicilian-inspired dinners on stylish Corso Venezia.
Rita & Cocktails: This Navigli institution is beloved for its bespoke cocktails and friendly, unpretentious ambiance.
N’Ombra de Vin: A cavernous wine cellar with an unmatched selection in Milan, N’Ombra de Vin also does great antipasto plates of salumi and cheese.
Nottingham Forest: Kitschy, eclectic decor and cocktails that are seriously creatively poured and presented make this Porta Monforte haunt worth the hike.
Terrazza Triennale: This upscale, romantic spot in Parco Sempione boasts views of the city skyscrapers from a delightful outdoor terrace or glass and girders interior bar.
Hollywood Rythmoteque: This glamorous, legendary Corso Como disco opens at 11 p.m. and closes at 5 a.m. Pre-book to avoid the wait at the door, or book an entire table to party in style.
Tocqueville 13: Open Tuesday and Friday to Sunday nights, the themed parties here are the stuff of disco legend. You pretty much have to be young, sexy and well-dressed to get in. 
Amnesia Milano: Celebrity DJs, a casual dress code, and a dimly lit setting with fantastic light shows keep this club, set well east of Centro, packed on Friday and Saturday nights.
Old Fashion Club: Set in Parco Sempione, this stylish restaurant and nightclub draws fashionistas to its nightly dinners and themed evenings, complete with go-go dancers, DJs, and live music.
Il Gattopardo Cafè: Set in an old church with soaring ceilings, fashionable Gattopardo has a huge dancefloor and a regal ambiance.
Bere Buona Birra: Near Porta Romana, this no-nonsense beer pub has simple decor, a rotating selection of beers on tap, and a bring-your-own-food policy.
Lambiczoon: Also in Porta Romana, this place has a connoisseurs' selection of specialty beers, plus good burgers and antipasti in a no-frills setting.
Birrificio Lambrate: A great selection of draft beers and comforting pub fare make this place, with two locations near Milano Centrale, a low-key favorite.
Tipota Pub: It's fine to bring the kids to this friendly, uber-casual pub near the Navigli offering out-of-the-ordinary beers and pretty ordinary pub grub.
Alcatraz: This enormous live music venue in Zona Farini is legendary in Milan and offers live music most nights of the week, including from known acts and indie bands.
Blue Note: Sister to the famous New York jazz club of the same name, this Isola club offers dinner shows and almost nightly shows from top international musicians.
Nidaba Theatre: Blues, bluegrass, country, and soul—plus a bar. It's all on the ticket at this delightfully divey Navigli concert hall.
Public transportation in Milan runs until 2:30 a.m. at the latest. Uber and taxis are available if you're out even later.
Aperitivo hour typically runs from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Most bars will stay open until midnight or later. Discos, some of which don't even open until 11 p.m., stay open until the very wee hours.
Cover charges will vary depending on whether live entertainment is offered. Most bars do not have cover charges.
While it can't claim the extensive ancient ruins of Rome or the Renaissance legacy of Florence, Milan boasts a modern energy that many other Italian cities lack. Plus, there's that undeniable sense of style, which you'll pick up on as soon as you hit the sidewalk and admire fashionably-dressed Milanese on their way to work, to the market, or just out walking the dog.
A great way to discover Italy's second-largest city is through exploring its many diverse neighborhoods, ranging from artsy, bohemian enclaves to innovative modern quarters. Read on for a guide to Milan's top neighborhoods.
The streets surrounding the Duomo di Milano are certainly among the best-situated for visiting Milan's most popular sights and shopping areas. Apart from the Duomo, the historic Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II retail arcade is here, as well as the Ducal Palace and La Scala theatre. You'll pay a premium for a hotel room, though you'll be in the very heart of Milan.
Frank Fell/GettyImages
Well-heeled culture vultures love Brera for its proximity to the Pinacoteca di Brera art museum, as well as its shopping and café scene. Brera's narrow side streets offer sidewalk dining and a lively—if refined—aperitivo scene. It's an expensive area to bed down for the night, but you'll be near the Duomo and far from the madding crowds.
claudio.arnese/GettyImages
The Navigli area, once the site of bustling commerce via a network of canals, is now best known for its boho vibe, its once-a-month antiques market, and its nightly party scene along the Naviglio Grande and Naviglio Pavese canals. Stay here if you want to feel like a real Milano insider, and if you're either a night owl or a heavy sleeper.
The hotel-dense blocks around Milano Centrale train station may not be the most attractive in the city, but they are among the most affordable. Stay here if you're on a budget or you've got just a short time in the city. The top sights in Milan, including the Duomo and the Sforza Castle, are just a short Metro ride away, or within one hour's walk.
The church of Santa Maria delle Grazie, home of Leonardo Da Vinci's "The Last Supper," may be the most famous site in Zona Magenta, but it's not the only reason to visit or book a stay in the neighborhood. Its elegant streets are lined with 19th-century palazzos housing bars, cafés, shops, and restaurants, with leafy side streets giving this close-in area a suburban feel.
With a Metro stop whisking travelers and commuters to the Duomo every five minutes, visitors staying in the Porta Romana area might not notice they're not right in the city center. The trade-off for being slightly off the beaten path? Cheaper hotel rooms, a neighborhood feel, and a slew of bars and restaurants favored by the area's upwardly mobile locals.
@Brasilnut/GettyImages
Although it houses the Giardini Pubblici (public gardens) and the Museum of Natural History, Porta Venezia is best known as home to Milan's longest and most popular shopping street: Corso Buenos Aires, which runs into Zona Buenos Aires. This retail runway boasts more than 350 stores, ranging from affordable chains like Zara and Foot Locker to more expensive outlets.
Busà Photography/GettyImages
Once considered quite literally the "other side of the tracks" due to its location near the Porta Garibaldi train station, the Isola/Porta Nuova area now looks very much like the Milan of the future. Innovative high-rises (including the tree-covered Bosco Verticale), corporate tech and banking headquarters, and a young, professional vibe mean increasingly higher rents and an of-the-moment nightlife scene.
If you're looking for an inexpensive place to stay; a colorful, out-of-the-ordinary area to explore; or you just need a break from Italian food, Milan's Quartiere Cinese (Chinese Quarter) might be the district for you. Italy's oldest and largest Chinese neighborhood offers a lot more than Chinese food; pan-Asian restaurants abound, and the area is only a 30-minute walk from the Duomo.
As the home of both Milan Fashion Week and Milan Design Week, Zona Tortona wears its style on its sleeve. The small enclave, set southwest of the city center, is anchored by a museum dedicated to Giorgio Armani, as well as the Mudec Museum of Culture. This is a good base for shopping for one-of-a-kind designer duds and for exploring the neighboring Navigli district.
Foto Giovanni Dall'Orto/Wikimedia Commons
With its mix of banal modern apartment buildings, historic churches, and Roman and medieval remains, Ticinese reflects its socially diverse population, which ranges from artists and young professionals to the idle rich. With good connections to the city center, this neighborhood is a popular option for those who want to save a little money while enjoying a whole lot of nightlife and dining options.
  Centro Storico  
  Brera  
  Navigli  
  Central Station Area  
  Zona Magenta  
  Porta Romana  
  Porta Venezia/Zona Buenos Aires  
  Isola/Porta Nuova  
  Chinatown  
  Zona Tortona  
  Ticinese  
Milan has for centuries been known as a destination for the performing arts. At least since the construction of La Scala, the city's legendary opera house and one of the most famous venues in the world, culturati have flocked to Milan for the world debuts of new works from the great masters of Italian opera.
Don't like opera? No problem: The performing arts in Milan go beyond La Scala. You can find theatres and other performance venues across the city that stage everything from contemporary, cutting-edge plays to massive rock concerts.
Whether you're in the mood for opera, ballet, or theatre, here's a list of the top performing arts venues in Milan, Italy.
La Scala opened in 1778, with the debut of Antonio Salieri's "L'Europa Riconosciuta." Rossini, Puccini and Verdi have also introduced some of their works to the world on La Scala's stage. After it was destroyed in World War I, the theatre was rebuilt in the years afterward; now, it imparts an air of history and prestige thanks to its interior of rich red and gold tones, ornately decorated private box seats, and glittering chandeliers.
If you are at all interested in opera, you should try to plan your trip to Milan around a performance at La Scala. There are operatic performances mostly year-round, as the theatre is closed during the month of August. La Scala also stages ballet and classical music performances.
Tickets range from 24 euros for seats with obstructed views of the stage, to 210 euros (and much higher, depending on the performance) for orchestra-level seats. For tickets or touring information, visit La Scala's website.
Opened in 1938 at the height of fascist rule in Italy, the Teatro Nuovo's design bears all the hallmarks of autocratic architecture—blocky, imposing, streamlined design that is relatively free of ornamentation. Interestingly enough, the theatre's founding director, Remigio Paone, was a staunch anti-fascist who staged works that were deemed too controversial for Mussolini's regime. Paone was forced into exile during World War II, but he returned to direct the theatre until his death in the 1970s. Today, Teatro Nuovo is still a venue for irreverent, satirical, and overtly political productions, as well as comedies, musicals, and opera performances. Tickets start at 10 or 40 euros, depending on the production. See the Teatro Nuovo website for details.
Originally a 1930s cinema house, the Auditorium di Milano Fondazione Cariplo (Auditorium of Milan) has been the home of the Giuseppe Verdi Symphonic Orchestra and Choir of Milan since 1999. Today, it hosts a full calendar of symphonic and choral music; productions range from the classics (such as Verdi's Requiem Mass) to the contemporary, with symphonic tributes to Pink Floyd, the Beatles, and Queen. Tickets range start from 8–21 euros. See the La Verdi symphony website for more info.
Since it launched in the post-war years, Italy's first public playhouse has consistently staged some of Western theatre's most challenging works, from Euripides and Shakespeare to productions confronting Europe's immigrant crisis. Even though the performances are all in Italian, shows at Il Piccolo Teatro (the Little Theatre) are guaranteed to be daring and thought-provoking. Tickets are priced from 10–15 euros. See the website of Il Piccolo Teatro for details.
Contemporary theatrical productions that examine modern life take center stage at this theatre near the Isola quarter, north of the city center. Ticket prices range from 16–21 euros. Visit the Teatro Fontana website for details.
Founded in 1850 as a theatre for dramatic plays, Teatro Manzoni was destroyed by Allied bombs in 1943. Rebuilt at a new location near La Scala, it reopened in 1950. The theatre today is a regal space for plays, variety shows, and musical performances. Tickets start at 17 euros, and parents can frequently find productions that will appeal to young children. See the Teatro Manzoni website for more information.
Since it served as the temporary home of La Scala during the famed opera house's three-year renovation, Teatro degli Acrimboldi has thrived. Its calendar features contemporary music and dance productions, including "The Nutcracker," "Priscilla," and "Queen of the Desert." Tickets start at around 30 euros. See the Teatro degli Arcimboldi website for details.
If you're going to watch a theatre or classical performance, it's wise to err on the side of being too elegant, rather than being underdressed. In particular, tank tops and shorts are not permitted at La Scala. Casual attire is acceptable in most other places, however.
  Famous Theatres in Milan  
  More Performance Venues in Milan  
  Dress Code  
San Siro Stadium: The storied playing field of Milan soccer rivals A.C. Milan and F.C. Inter, San Siro Stadium is also the site of large-capacity rock concerts. Beyoncé, Bruce Springsteen, and The Rolling Stones have all performed here.
Magnolia: The indie, alternative, and EDM crowd flocks to this open-air venue east of Milan near Linate airport.
Magazzini Generali: With an industrial, dive-y vibe and plenty of room to dance, this bar is a favorite spot for young Milanese to hear live music and DJ sets.
Blue Note: The Milan outpost of the legendary New York City jazz club draws the same caliber of artists. There's also a restaurant on-site for those who want dinner and a show.
Alcatraz: This cavernous disco and concert hall hosts a mix of DJ nights and concerts given by well-known and underground bands. The Jesus and Mary Chain, Postmodern Jukebox, and Megadeath are all on the calendar.
