Monaco is the tiny independent principality on the French Riviera that has been ruled by the Grimaldi family since the 13th century. For decades it has attracted the mega rich with its world famous Casino that sits at the heart of the capital of Monte Carlo. Monte Carlo is also known for the annual Monte Carlo Rally that takes over the streets of the capital, and of course the famous Formula One race that looks so unlikely in a small city with fearsome bends in the road. If you're considering a trip to Monaco, if possible avoid the Monte Carlo Rally and the Formula One race.
If the royal family dies out, then Monaco would become part of France. For the moment that looks extremely unlikely as there are numerous heirs.
See more about  Monaco and Monte Carlo
Monte Carlo has a border with Provence and the French Riviera. 
TGV trains to Monaco Monte Carlo regularly leave from Paris Gare de Lyon  (20 boulevard Diderot, Paris 12) throughout the day. 
Metro lines to and from Gare de Lyon
For buses, see the Paris Bus map.
All TGV trains to Monaco Monte Carlo train station involve one change at Nice onto the TER train. Train times vary but there is a regular service. The whole journey takes from 6 hrs 10 mins.
Overnight trainsOvernight trains to Monaco Monte Carlo leave from  Gare d'Austerlitz in Paris (85 quai Austerlitz, Paris 13th arrondissement) at around 9.30pm taking around 8 hours. Change onto the TER service for the 20-odd minute train ride to Monaco Monte Carlo. Train times are friendly: you arrive for a late breakfast.
Transport links to Gare d'Austerlitz
For buses, see the Paris Bus map.
From Charles de Gaulle 2 TGV train station to Monaco Monte CarloTGV trains go to Nice, taking around 6 hrs 30 mins. Train times vary but there is a frequent service. Change onto the TER service for the 20-odd minute ride to Monaco-Monte Carlo.
Other connections to Monte Carlo by TERPopular direct TER connections include Nice, Cannes, Les Arcs, Menton and Ventimille (in Italy).See the major TER services on the TER website.
The modern, below ground Monaco Monte Carlo train station is on Pont Ste Devote in the heart of Monte Carlo. From here it’s best to take a taxi or a local bus. On first arrival, Monte Carlo is a confusing place with steep hills to negotiate, though elevators whisk you up and down the steep capital.
The main airport for Monaco is not in Monte Carlo but at  Nice-Cote d’Azur. From here take a train, taxi or a hire car. But the simplest and most popular way is by helicopter. The journey takes seven minutes.. Book via  Heli Air Monaco.
Paris to Monaco-Monte Carlo is around 900 kms (559 miles) taking around 8 hours 30 mins depending on your speed. There are tolls on the autoroutes. Monaco-Monte Carlo is easily accessible as three motorways linking Spain, Italy and Northern Europe intersect at Marseille.
For information on hiring a car under the lease-back scheme which is the most economical way of hiring a car if you’re in France for more than 17 days, try  Renault Eurodrive Buy Back Lease.
Tourist Office in Monaco2a boulevard des MoulinsTel.: 0033 77 92 16 61 16Website
Tourist Office in the U.S.A.Monaco Government Tourist and Convention Bureaau565 Fifth Ave23rd FloorNew York, NY 10017Tel.: 00 (0)1 212 286 33 30Website in USA
Tourist Office in the U.K.Monaco Tourist Authority7 Upper Grosvenor StreetLondon W1K 2LXTel: 00 44 (0)207 491 4264Website in the U.K.
  Getting to Monaco and Monte Carlo by Train  
  Book your Train Tickets  
  Getting to Monaco Monte Carlo by plane  
  Getting to Monaco-Monte Carlo by car  
  Car hire  
  Getting from London to Paris  
  Train Travel in France  
Ligne 1 – La Defence to Chateau de Vincennes
Ligne 14 – Saint Lazare to Bibliotheque Francois Mitterand
MetroLigne 10: Austerlitz to Boulogne Pont de St-CloudLigne 5: Bobigny Pablo Picasso to Place d’Italie
From the US book with Rail Europe
From the UK book with Voyages sncf (formerly Rail Europe UK)
By train (Eurostar)Eurostar between London, Paris and More on Traveling in France 
Learn more about Train Travel in France
Check out the Map of TGV Routes in France
