Munich's Franz Josef Strauß Airport (Flughafen München Franz Josef Strauß) is the primary international airport for the city. It is also the second busiest airport in Germany after Frankfurt with nearly 45 million visitors a year. It provides excellent connections to the rest of the country and is consistently rated one of the top airports in Europe. It also is unique in that it has the world’s first airport brewery — fitting for Munich.
The old Munich-Riem Airport was once located closer to the city center. It moved further out to expand in 1992 and named after the conservative (CSU) Bavarian politician. The airport offers direct flights around Europe as well as to other major destinations around the world. The airport is about 25 miles from central Munich and there are several options to reach the city, as well as connect with other locations.
The airport offers all the basics of groceries, medical center, restaurants, spa, and a tourist office. These are mostly located in the Munich Airport Center (MAC) between the terminals. There is also the MAC-Forum, Europe's largest roofed outdoor area that hosts events from a Christmas market with ice-skating in winter and beach volleyball courts in summer.
There is free WiFi for 30 minutes, as well as free newspapers, post office, gym, barber shop, money changers, cash machines, and public transportation ticket machines. Visitors can check on the status of their flight online at any time.
For families, there are several children’s area such as a Kinderland hosted by Lufthansa with an aviation-themed playground. Some of these play areas require a small fee, but may be worth it to keep your littlest flyers happy. There are also free strollers available in Terminal 1.
The airport has two terminals, two runways, and many services for travelers.
As previously mentioned, there is a connecting airside bus service between terminals every 10-20 minutes, but walking between the terminals is usually easiest.
You can reach the airport by driving from the north, east and south via the A92 autobahn and the B301 regional road. From the west, take the A92 then the St2084 and St2584 regional roads.
To reach nearby destinations of Nuremberg, Regensburg, Würzburg and Bamberg, it is best to take Bus 635 from the airport to the city of Freising and connect from there. The bus takes just 20 minutes and the national rain service, Deutsche Bahn, can take you anywhere in Germany or in much of Europe.
There are bus services in front of terminal 1 off level 3, as well as terminal 2 at level 4. Most offer service to central Munich, but there are also some options to nearby attractions, cities and villages.
There are about 60 places to eat in the airport from restaurants to cafes. There are traditional Bavarian establishments with local beer and beer garden (open from April to October).
There are many hotels in Munich for every price point, as well as hotels next to the airport such as Hilton Munich Airport, NH München Airport, Mövenpick Hotel München Airport, Novotel Munich Airport, and MOXY Munich Airport. In addition, there are Nap Cabs — self-service sleep pods where you can curl up in your own pod and pay by the hour.
  Munich Airport Code, Location, and Contact Information  
  Know Before You Go  
  Parking at Munich's Airport  
  Driving Directions to/from Munich's Airport  
  Public Transportation and Taxis at Munich's Airport  
  Where to Eat and Drink at Munich's Airport  
  How to Spend Your Layover at Munich's Airport  
  Munich Airport Tips and Tidbits  
Airport Code: MUC
Location: Nordallee 25, 85356 München
Flight Departure & Arrival Info
Munich Airport Map
Phone Number: 49 089 97500
Terminal 1: This is the older terminal and Oneworld alliance members, including American Airlines, take most of the space. There are six self-contained modules here: A, B, C, D, E and F. Note that module F is located north of Terminal 2 and has check-in for high-security flights (for example, to and from Israel). The terminal has several levels with the train station on level 2, passenger transport system on level 3 and check-in counters, security checkpoints, arrival areas, customs and most restaurants on level 4 (ground level. There is also a level 5 for passengers with connecting flights.
Terminal 2: This is where Lufthansa and Star Alliance partners are located. It has several check-in counters on level 3, more check-in counters, security checkpoints, and duty-free shops on level 4, and visitor deck, restaurants and art exhibitions on level 5.
Parking areas are available and you can use the parking ticket for free public transportation to the terminals. Discount parking begins at €19.
All major car rental companies are available at the airport. Use the airport's car reservation system to explore pricing and options.
The S-Bahn (commuter trains) easily connect Munich Central Station (München Hauptbahnhof) to the airport. The commute is around 35 minutes, and runs every 10 minutes (reduced frequency at night).
The S-Bahn stops at two stations at the airport: Besucherpark (parking and Visitors Park) and Flughafen München (Terminal 1 and 2). The S1 (west) and S8 (east) are the main lines between the city and airport.
Lufthansa express bus is available to the Hauptbahnhof via Schwabing quarter for €10.50 one-way or €17 return. Buses run every 15 minutes and the trip takes about 45 minutes. It is open to passengers of any airline. There is also a Lufthansa shuttle to nearby Regensburg.
INVG also runs line X109 or Ingolstädter Airport Express between Ingolstadt and Munich Airport. There are hourly departures and the hourney takes about an hour.
Regionalverkehr Oberbayern ( RVO) operates buses to nearby small towns.
German long distance bus service, FlixBus, runs services from Terminal 2 at bus stops 21 and 22. Travelers can connect with the rest of the country via the central bus station.
You can arrange for a taxi with major companies beforehand, or pick one up outside the departure and arrival areas of Terminal 1 and 2 with a service point on level 3 in Terminal 2.
The fare between the airport and city should be around €60.
Visitors can also pick from typical fast food options, as well as international foods. Find the full listings for restaurants in Munich's airport.
If you prefer to shop for supplies, there is an Edeka grocery store between Terminal 1 and 2 and is even open on Sundays.
If you want to watch the planes rather than ride on one, climb up to the Besucherzentrumre (visitors center) platform to watch the incoming/outgoing flights. There are also historical planes on display, an interactive exhibit, as well as an adventure playground.
Visitors can check in here to join an airport tour, usually only conducted in German on a daily basis from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday to Thursday, or 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. on the weekends.
The best ideas on how to enjoy summer in Munich—from beer gardens, and open air markets, to lakes and parks, here’s how to make the most out of your summer vacation in Munich.
The bustling Viktualienmarkt, Munich’s oldest open-air farmers market dating back to 1807, is a landmark in the heart of the city. You can marvel at booths decorated with garlands of sausages, mountains of fresh vegetables, and pyramids of fruits. The market has everything from meat, and cheese, to bread, pastries, and ​freshly squeezed juices; buy some treats for the whole family and enjoy them right then and there, at the beer garden in the center of the market.
Bigger than Central Park, Munich’s park “Englischer Garten” is a green oasis and a wonderful place to explore: Rent a paddle boat, stroll along the wooded paths, take a horse-drawn carriage, visit one of its traditional beer gardens, and watch the German answer to surfing on the currents of the waterway called Eisbach (close to Prinzregentenstrasse).
The Isar river, coming from the Alps, flows smack through the center of Munich and draws people from all walks of life in summer; locals love to sunbathe, picnic, barbecue (in designated areas), and fish (with a license) here. It’s a perfect spot to relax after a day of sightseeing—just be prepared that you might spot some people sunning their buns on the riverbank; nude sunbathing has been allowed here since the 1960’s.
There is no better end to a summer's day than to sit with friends at long wooden tables shaded by century-old chestnut trees, enjoying a big stein of Bavarian beer fresh from the brewery. Munich is home to almost 200 beer gardens, among them the largest beer garden in the world, which seats 8000 people. Our top picks include the crème de la crème of Bavarian hospitality, from bustling beer gardens in the heart of Munich’s farmers market to idyllic open-air restaurants in the city’s green scene.
Munich is a perfect city to explore by bike; there are many bike rentals throughout the city (e.g. inside Munich’s central train station), but if you’ll feel more comfortable taking part in a guided bike tour, check out this one. This three-hour bike tour takes you through Munich’s Old Town, along the green banks of the river Isar, and to royal parks and gardens. You’ll also ride through Munich’s famous English Garden, where you’ll stop in one of the city’s best beer gardens for a drink.
In summer, every Monday evening locals put on their skates and take over the city. Large parts of the inner city will be shut down for traffic and rollerbladers and skaters speed through Munich—a unique way to experience the city and its sights. Meeting point is every Monday at 9 p.m. at Theresienwiese (only between May and September). For more information, go to www.aok-bladenight.de.
The largest lake within Munich’s city limits, the Feldmochinger See has a superb water quality and is a great place for swimming and water sports. There are beach volleyball courts, table tennis, showers, as well as a designated nudist area. (Take S1 to Feldmoching)
For all adventurous travelers: Munich’s Olympic Stadium, which was the site of the 1972 Summer Olympics, offers guided tours across its roof, which is made of sweeping and transparent canopies. The light roof design created from of acrylic glass is modeled on the Bavarian Alps—and if the weather is good, you'll be able to see the mountains from up here. No climbing experience needed, just good shoes and a little courage. Tours are only available in summer.
Take a day trip to the lake Starnberger See, which lies 16 miles south of Munich; lined by some of King Ludwig’s best palaces, the lake offers fantastic views of the Bavarian Alps and the Zugspitze, Germany’s highest peak. In summer, the lake is ideal for water sports and strolls along its promenade (take the suburban train (S Bahn) S6 to Starnberg).
 Explore the City's Oldest Open-Air Farmer's Market 
 Get Lost in Englischer Garten 
  Relax on the Banks of River Isar  
 Drink a Pint at Munich's Beer Gardens 
  Bike Through Munich  
 Skate Around Town at Night 
  Swim in the Feldmochinger See  
 Walk on the Roof of Munich's Olympic Stadium 
  Stroll Around Starnberg Lake  
The best time to visit Munich is in the springtime, from late March through mid-May, or the first few weeks in September before the Oktoberfest crowds hit. In these time frames you’ll likely find pleasant weather and lots of fun events going on from festivals to concerts, plus they all coincide with many Munich school holidays, so not only will tourists crowds be reduced, the city itself is often quieter and calmer. Summer and the Christmas and New Year’s season are very popular with Munich visitors for the sheer number of outdoor activities available in the summer and for the Christmas markets and holiday atmosphere in the winter, but they can both garner larger crowds and more expensive accommodation.
Munich has several notable “peak seasons,” the most famous being Oktoberfest, which lasts from the end of September until the beginning of October, making accommodation challenging and expensive around this time of year. Summertime is also considered a peak season with higher accommodation rates, as well as right around Christmas time, as many tourists like to visit Munich’s charming Christmas markets. Also note that for about a week in April, the BAUMA convention fills up hotels just as quickly as Oktoberfest — it’s worth checking the BAUMA dates if you’re thinking of traveling to Munich in April, though the rest of the month is relatively quiet.
As previously mentioned, Munich’s most famed festival is Oktoberfest, taking place in the fall — a massive beer party, essentially, so perhaps best avoided if that’s not your scene. Other smaller beer festivals might be a better bet if you’d like to have a similar experience but stay away from crowds, such as Starkbierfest in March and Fruhlingsfest in late April-early May. The charming Auer Dult takes places several times a year, and the popular Tollwood festival replete with concerts, a circus, various performing acts and lots of food and art is held twice yearly in winter and summer. Various holidays ranging from Christmas to Fasching (Carnival) have many associated festivities to explore.
Munich’s weather can be a bit unpredictable at times — some years you’ll see a hot April and a rainy, cold May, or a stormy November followed by a balmy December. Overall, though, temperatures and climate tend to be on the mild and moderate side; it’s not often you’ll encounter a winter blizzard or a sweltering, humid summer day. Bring layers just to be on the safe side no matter what the season, but you’ll be likely to get some beautiful weather during late April through early October.
Typically one of the colder months of the year in Munich, the main advantage to visiting Munich in January is it is one of the most off-peak months to visit after New Year’s, so you’ll likely get some good deals on accommodation and travel fare. If you enjoy skiing, Munich is an excellent base for a January visit- you can easily get to a number of ski resorts by train all less than 2 hours away from the main station.
Events to check out
Another rather cold month (sometimes colder than December and January), February can nevertheless be a great time to visit Munich in part due to Fasching (Carnival).
Events to check out
March in Munich can have weather ranging from sunny and lovely to the last hurrah of winter with some snow — anything goes! If the weather doesn’t cooperate, it’s a perfect opportunity to check out some of the cities’ excellent museums, art galleries and indoor pools.
Events to check out
April, particularly the latter half, can be a gorgeous time of year in Munich with all the spring flowers bursting into bloom. Easter often falls in April and you can find egg hunts, the Easter bunny (a German invention!) and Easter masses throughout the city.
Events to check out
Outdoor pools start to open up in May, which is often when the weather takes a turn for the stunning in Munich. A great time of year to picnic in the English Garden or by the Isar river.
Events to check out
June is a lovely time of year to visit Munich; you’re typically guaranteed nice weather without it getting to be too hot. It’s also the perfect time to go hiking in the pre-Alps, less than an hour’s train ride away. Visitors tend to start showing up now though, so make sure to book accommodation in advance.
Events to check out
July is usually peak beer garden and grill month in Munich. Take the S-Bahn down to a nearby lake, such as Starnberg or Ammersee, for a perfect summer’s day.
Events to check out
August is a bit of a funny month because many locals are gone on holiday while tourists come to visit. It’s typically one of the warmer months of the year, so beer gardens, outdoor swimming pools and lakes are excellent options in Munich during August.
Events to check out
September is one of the peak months of tourism for Munich due to Oktoberfest, which despite its name mostly takes place in September. The earlier half of the month is a particularly nice time to come- the weather is typically warm and sunny without the onslaught of visitors towards the end.
Events to check out
Though it often cools down during the latter half of the month, early October tends to be balmy and the changing foliage looks stunning when you walk around the city.
Events to check out
Whilst November is typically not the nicest month in terms of weather (usually cold, but no snow), there’s still much to be enjoyed this month in Munich.
Events to check out
This is Munich’s most festive time of year, with charming Christmas markets ranging from artsy to traditional to hyper-local that purvey mulled wine, gingerbread and Christmas stollens and a vast array of other delicacies as well as live music, puppet shows and some rides for young children. Entertainment options are often holiday-themed, and things take a turn for the cozy with the weather.
Events to check out
  Peak Season for Munich  
  Famous Events and Festivals in Munich  
  Weather in Munich  
  January  
  February  
  March  
  April  
  May  
  June  
  July  
  August  
  September  
  October  
  November  
  December  
The city goes wild with fireworks on Silvester (New Year’s), and the bridges around the Isar river are excellent viewpoints.
During Fasching, the bakeries churn out delicious krapfen, specialty doughnuts, and there are various Fasching parties and balls throughout the city.
The annual Starkbierfest (“strong beer”) festival is a good way to experience a Munich beer festival with the locals — but beware, the beer is indeed strong, as the name suggests!
Fruhlingsfest is the little sister of Oktoberfest and much more cozy and local. This festival kicks off the outdoor season for events in Munich.
Lange Nacht der Musik is a full night packed with concerts and performances all around the city.
Hofflohmarkte: The highly popular Munich courtyard flea markets transform a neighborhood every weekend into a buzzing opportunity to check out beautiful hidden courtyards and pick out some bargains.
Tollwood: This popular outdoor festival features well known musical acts, a circus, art displays and organic international food vendors.
Klassik am Odeonsplatz: Come hear some of Germany’s finest orchestras play classical music outdoors on the famous Odeonsplatz square.
Kino, Mond und Sterne is open air cinema at the Olympic park with a variety of films, some shown with subtitles.
Oktoberfest is Munich’s most famous event, drawing thousands of visitors to the beer tents, carnival rides and live entertainment.
Auer Dult is a charming thrice-yearly festival that is low key and fun for everyone; you can hunt for antiques or ride a historic Ferris wheel.
The Bavarian celebration of St. Martin’s Day is held on November 11. There are lantern processions, bonfires, and the traditional “St. Martin’s goose” meal with roast goose, red cabbage, and Bavarian dumplings.
Weihnachtsmarkt and Christkindlmarkt are some of the most beloved Christmas markets in Munich. They include a medieval market by Odeonsplatz, the market by the Chinese Tower in the English Garden, and the artsy winter Tollwood festival.
Munich is an excellent city for using public transit, featuring a comprehensive network of subways, trams, buses, and commuter trains that take you to virtually anywhere you need to go within the city and its outlying suburbs (though transit is more limited out in the ‘burbs). Though a couple of aspects might be a bit confusing at first to those new to the city, it’s relatively simple to navigate and get where you need to go.
Munich’s U-Bahn, or underground subway system, is probably the transit system utilized most by visitors and also regularly by locals. It’s fast, easy to navigate, and the underground stations tend to be clean and safe- some of them even pipe in classical music!
The main disadvantage to Munich’s public transit system is the price, as it’s expensive. A single ticket within the central zone is 2.90 Euros. You can save money by buying a “Streifenkarte” (striped ticket) for ten individual rides, a daily, weekly, monthly or even yearly pass if you will be using transit frequently. There are also group tickets than can be used by multiple people for certain amounts of time.
Munich has a wide variety of ways to pay for tickets. You can buy tickets from machines at stations, as well onboard trams and buses, using cash, and in some cases also credit card or debit card. You can also opt to buy tickets on your cellphone using the MVG or Deutsche Bahn App, depending on what form of transit you are taking.
The U-Bahn doesn’t operate frequently in the hours of the early morning, so it might be worth looking into the night tramlines if you need to get somewhere at 2 am. During the daytime it is usually reliably frequent and in rush hours additional trains run. Generally speaking, you won’t have to wait more than 10 to 15 minutes max for a subway, usually much less.
If you buy a ticket from a blue MVG machine, make sure to validate the ticket by stamping it in in the stamping machines at subway stations and on buses and trams. Controllers do periodic sweeps to check tickets and if you have not validated your ticket, you will be fined. The other important thing to note is to check your travel zone. Munich transit is divided into rings. Look on the map at the subway station to see where your stop falls into in the ring zones (if you’re staying within central Munich, it’ll be just the first two rings). You will have to pay extra for a ticket that goes further or stamp more stripes on your Streifenkarte if you need to go somewhere, say, in ring six. A one-way ticket in one direction is valid for two hours. You can use it to transfer from, say, a subway to a bus, as long as you stay within your ring zone.
For the most part, Munich subway stations are very accessible for the handicapped or those using strollers or the elderly. There are elevators and escalators and spaces for wheelchairs. Strollers are supposed to be parked near the doors of the subway.
Munich is hardly limited to the U-Bahn, with a vast network of buses, trams, and commuter trains. The ticketing system for buses and trams is the same for the U-Bahn, and you can typically buy tickets directly on the bus or tram from a machine, though most take cash only. Note that if you have a stroller or wheelchair, there are designated spots marked on bus and tram doors.
Munich’s bus lines are the primary way to get around in the suburbs and areas not reached by U-Bahn or tram, but there are also a fair number of buses in the city center as well. If you need to get somewhere in a hurry, there are a number of “Express Bus” lines that make only a few stops to prime locations.
Perhaps the most romantic of Munich’s transit options, the trams are another convenient and scenic way to get around town and also serve some of the more far-flung neighborhoods as well as central routes.
Munich’s S-Bahn lines run through the city center and serve the suburbs of Munich, making it a great option for suburban commuters and day trips to some of Munich’s most visited out-of-center sites, such as Lake Starnberg, Dachau, and Andechs monastery. Bear in mind that an S-Bahn ticket to the airport is a separate ticket than the typical ring zone format and make sure you have the appropriate ticket. While the S-Bahn is generally quite convenient and reliable, since it currently has only one central track, there can be significant delays or cancellations if there is construction or bad weather.
The MVG bike rental system allows you to rent bikes short-term and return them to stops around U-Bahn and S-Bahn stations. There are a variety of other bike sharing programs in Munich as well, or you can rent bikes long-term from many bike stores across the city. Munich is an extremely bike-friendly city with bike lanes everywhere, it’s a great way to save on time and get some exercise.
It’s easy to hail a taxi in the central parts of town, especially near major train and bus stations; otherwise you’ll need to call for a taxi service. Taxis in Munich are reliable and safe, if a bit pricey. Don’t try to take a taxi to the airport from the city though; it’s very expensive — either take the S-Bahn straight to the airport, the Lufthansa airport bus, or reserve a shuttle or special taxi in advance if you really don’t want to take public transit. Uber also operates in Munich.
If you’re primarily going to be in Munich and not doing any extensive travel around Bavaria, it honestly doesn’t make a lot of sense to rent a car — it’s expensive, Munich can have bad traffic, parking can be hard to find in some areas and gas is not cheap. However, there are many options for car rental agencies around Munich, and it can be a good option if you are using Munich as a base and venturing into some rural areas around the region. That said, train connections in Bavaria are excellent and you will likely be able to go car-free if you don’t have any significant mobility issues.
  How to Ride the U-Bahn  
  Other Forms of Transit in Munich  
  Bus  
  Tram  
  S-Bahn (Commuter Train)  
  Bike Rentals  
  Taxis and Ridesharing Apps  
  Renting a Car  
  Tips for Getting Around Munich  
Avoid driving if you can. Rush hour in Munich can be painful, and certain sections of the city have constant traffic. The city center is small and easily navigable, and the public transit and bike network is excellent.
Remember that there are no turnstiles. Buses, trains and trams don’t have turnstiles; remember to stamp your ticket in the event a controller makes a random sweep. Exceptions are weekly and monthly tickets that are time-stamped, or tickets purchased from a Deutsche Bahn machine.
Don’t be afraid to ask for help! Sometimes certain elements of the Munich system, such as ring zones, can be a bit confusing; don’t be afraid to ask someone or a transit worker if you’re confused when buying tickets.
At night, the tram lines switch to “night lines.” Late at night, tram lines often condense to slightly different, less frequent routes. Every tram stop should have a map displaying the night routes.
The Munich City Card is a special pass that allows you unlimited travel on Munich’s public transportation (called MVG), including metro, suburban railway, bus, and tram.
In addition, the Munich City Card offers discounts on over 70 Munich attractions including museums, restaurants, and behind-the-scenes city tours. Highlights include:
To get the most out of the attractions, MVV has laid out recommended tours for families, men, and women. It covers three-days of activities and is only available in German. To receive the discounts, you usually need only present the card at the ticket office. However, some partners require a coupon. Included with the card are an A3-size map of Munich’s downtown area and an overview of the public transport system.
You can choose between different Munich City Tour Cards, depending on the number of people in your party, how far you want to travel and how many days you wish to spend in Munich and/or the surrounding areas. 
For one person:
For Groups up to 5 people:
Note that two children (between the ages of 6 and 14) count as one adult. Children under 6 and dogs are free.
The tickets are good from time of validation til 6:00 on the second, fourth or fifth day.
Tickets can be purchased by direct debit or credit card (Visa, MasterCard, American Express) or with cash:
The CityTourCard must be validated before you start your trip. (Online Tickets do not have to be stamped.) To validate, tickets can be bought pre-validated from Deutsche Bahn or can be validated by punching on the platform.
For more information, consult the official website of the  Munich City Tour Card.
  Munich City Tour Card Options  
  Where to Buy the Munich City Tour Card   
Beer and Oktoberfest Museum: Covering everything about German beer, this museum is in a restored 14th-century townhouse and provides plenty of opportunities for tastings. 1.50 euro off the entrance.
Nymphenburg Palace: Once the summer residence of royals, the "Castle of the Nymph" is a Baroque palace open to the public. 1 euro off the entrance.
Munich Walk Tours: Native English speakers as well as real live Bavarians offer an excellent look at the city. Tours include a Beer & Brewery Tour, City Walk, Dachau Memorial, Hitler’s Munich, Neuschwanstein Castle, Christmas Market Tour and more. 20% discount on tour prices.
Olympic Park: This impressive structure was constructed for the 1972 Summer Olympics. The Park still serves as a venue for the cultural and social event venue. 1 euro off regular admission and .50 off stadium tour. 
Bavaria Filmstadt: The magical world of the NeverEnding Story is actually in Bavaria. Ride on Falkor the dragon and learn about the influential studio responsible for many current blockbuster films. Discount is 1 euro off the entrance.
1 day (valid for travel within Munich’s inner area) - 10.90 euro
3 days (valid for travel within Munich’s inner area) - 21.90 euro
3 days (valid for travel within the entire network including Munich Airport and Dachau Concentration Camp) - 33.90 euro
4 days (valid for travel within Munich’s inner area) - 26.90 euro
4 days (valid for travel within the entire network) - 43.90 euro
1 day (valid for travel within Munich’s inner area) - 18.90 euro
3 days (valid for travel within Munich’s inner area) - 31.90 euro
3 days (valid for travel within the entire network) - 55.90 euro
4 days (valid for travel within Munich’s inner area) - 40.90 euro
4 days (valid for travel within the entire network) - 70.90 euro
Ticket vending machines at the stops/stations and in trams and on buses of Munich’s public transportation
Ticket vending machines of the German Railway (look for “Kombitickets”)
Munich Tourism Offices at the Main Train Station and at Marienplatz
Selected hotels in Munich
Online—You can even purchase a mobile ticket on your smartphone.
Munich is quintessential Germany. Where Berlin and Frankfurt may disappoint you with their modern style, Munich is the land of lederhosen, weighty pork dishes, traditional biergartens, and the biggest beer festival in the world. It doesn't hurt that this cosmopolitan city also has no shortage of architecture and culture—some museums are considered even better than those in Berlin! No trip to Munich is complete without visiting these 23 attractions and sights. Luckily, many of them are in the center of Munich's Old Town and you can easily walk from one landmark to the next.
Taylor McIntyre / © TripSavvy
Munich's Marienplatz (Marien Square) is the central square in the heart of Munich.
It's home to the Neues Rathaus (New Town Hall) with its highly decorated façade and the traditional Ratskeller (Town Hall cellar) restaurant. The Tourist Information Center is also nearby and makes a great pit stop for advice and brochures.
For most visitors, the Glockenspiel within the Rathaus tower captures most of the attention. From March through October, this famous clock chimes every day at 11 a.m., noon, and 5 p.m. When its 43 bells ring out, more than 30 figures make merry, fight, and dance! Finally, a golden bird chirps three times to end the show. If you miss these show times, you have one more chance at 9 p.m. to watch an angel and a night watchman appear.
If you're visiting the city at Christmas time, don't miss the largest Weihnachtsmarkt (Christmas market) in the entire city.
For many people, Munich is synonymous with Oktoberfest. There is so much more to the city, but that doesn't mean you should skip the world's greatest beer fest.
A tradition since 1810, more than 6.3 million visitors pour into the city every fall. On opening day, the mayor of Munich taps the first keg in the Schottenhamel beer tent with the exclamation "O'zapft is!" (It is tapped!). For the next two weeks, more than 7.5 million liters of beer will be consumed.
 Chira Chirakijja / TripSavvy
No matter what time of year you visit, the best beer halls in Munich are still happily serving.
True Munich beer halls brew their own beer and present it in the atmosphere it was meant to be drunk, typically alongside platters of meat by tracht-clad (traditional clothing) servers with boisterous oompah music.
Even though it's touristy, don't miss the world-famous Hofbrauhaus. It's Bavarian hospitality at its best in a fabled environment.
 Taylor McIntyre / © TripSavvy
Along with the Rathaus, the twin towers of the Frauenkirche define Munich's skyline. It is the city's largest church with room for 20,000 pious visitors and it dates back to the 15th century. 
When you enter the church, you'll immediately see the Teufelstritt, a mysterious footprint called the "Devil's Footstep." Legend says this black mark was where the devil stamped his foot. It also miraculously survived World War II, despite severe damage to the rest of the cathedral.
For a more heavenly perspective, climb the steps of the cathedral’s towers for an unparalleled view of Munich's cityscape and the Bavarian Alps.
Chira Chirakijja / TripSavvy
Munich's English Garden (Englischer Garten) is the largest park in the city and the designated hang-out on any sunny day.
Attractions within the park are numerous. You can rent a paddle boat, stroll along the wooded paths, or visit one of its traditional beer gardens. But if you really want to relax, you can let it all hang out on its grassy lawn—and yes, we mean go nude.
Moments from the civility of Marienplatz, the meadow of Schönfeldwiese welcomes everyone to from retirees to college students. Feel free to join in, but refrain from taking pictures.
Taylor McIntyre / © TripSavvy 
Even though it's hundreds of miles from the ocean, Munich's visitors walking the perimeter of the Englischer Garten come across the Eisbach canal and are surprised to find surfers there.
Munich is the birthplace of the unusual sport of river surfing. Intrepid surfers suit up throughout the year to take on the fierce waves erupting from the bridge and see how long they can hold on. 
 Chira Chirakijja / TripSavvy
Munich's beer gardens are among the country's best. At most, long wooden picnic tables stretch out below century-old chestnut trees and waitresses loaded down with steins breeze between the tables.  Munich is home to almost 200 beer gardens including the largest in the world, Hirschgarten, which seats a whopping 8,000 people.
 Chira Chirakijja / TripSavvy
Once the home of royalty, the Residence Palace of Munich is open to the public. It is free to walk the grounds, but curious visitors should really step inside.
Construction began in 1385 on what was to become the largest city palace in Germany. Today, the place is home to one of the best European museums of interior decoration, 10 courtyards, and 130 rooms of regal antiques, artwork, porcelain, and tapestries. Don't miss the Antiquarium (Hall of Antiquities), which dates back to 1568. It is the largest Renaissance hall north of the Alps and features an incredible ceiling of alternating gold and paintings.
 Chira Chirakijja / TripSavvy
Viktualienmarkt is Munich's daily outdoor farmers' market. Its 140 booths offer the best in seasonal specialties from spargel (that's asparagus, by the way) to strawberries.
The Viktualienmarkt began in the early 19th century and attracts Müncheners, tourists, and even local chefs. There is a butchers' hall, bakery, fish market, and flower area. If you can't wait to eat, some of Germany's best sausages, and bretzeln (pretzels) are cooked up fresh.
Above the market is the maibaum (maypole), decorated with figures from their various trades.
Munich's three Pinakothek museums cover the range of great art throughout the ages.
The Alte Pinakothek (Old Picture Gallery) is one of the oldest art galleries in the world. It holds more than 700 European masterpieces from the Middle Ages to the end of the Rococo period. 
The Pinakothek der Moderne is the largest museum for modern art in Germany with photography and video from greats like Picasso and Warhol.
The concentration camp of Dachau was one of the first concentration camps in Nazi Germany, where it served as a model for all the camps to follow. 
Visitors follow the "path of the prisoner," walking the same way prisoners were forced to travel after their arrival in the camp. The original prisoner baths, barracks, courtyards, and the crematorium are all available to visit in horrifying detail.
Chira Chirakijja / TripSavvy
The Olympic Stadium in Munich was built for the 1972 Olympic Games and is still a wonder of technology.
The design of the acrylic glass roof is modeled on the Alps, and on a clear day you can actually see the mountains. Access is only available during the summer and through a guided tour. Panels describe the momentous moments of the Games, as well as life of the stadium afterwards.
 Chira Chirakijja / TripSavvy
The Deutsches Museum (German Museum) is one of the oldest and largest science and technology museums in the world. There are 17,000 artifacts taking visitors from early developments like the first automobile to the laboratory bench where the atom was first split.
Interactive exhibits entertain the children and enough trains, planes, and automobiles to keep everyone's imagination moving. Some exhibits are closed for renovations until 2020.
 Chira Chirakijja / TripSavvy
Just a short ride on public transport from the city, Starnberger See drops you back into nature. There are views of the Alps—including the Zugspitze—as well as six castles, but most people can't stop looking at the stunning azure hue of the lake. If you're ready to get wet, Starnberger See is the ideal location for swimming, boating, or sunbathing.
Chira Chirakijja / TripSavvy
Tierpark Hellabrunn is more of a nature preserve than a zoo, with almost 20,000 animals spread out over 89 acres. Since its inception in 1911 as the first geo-zoo, their focus has been providing a quality experience for the animals and visitors. 
Tierpark Hellabrunn consistently ranks among the best zoos in Europe, thanks to thoughtful and beautiful exhibits like the historically listed Elephant House, crowd-pleasers like the petting zoo, picnic spots, and pony and camel rides for children during summer.
GettyImages / Franz Marc Frei  LOOK-foto
 
The summer residence of the Wittelsbach Electors, this large Baroque palace from the 17th century is known as Schloss Nymphenburg "Castle of the Nymphs" or simply Nymphenburg.
It has a massive span of 600 meters from wing to wing and is bordered on both sides by the Nymphenburg Canal. Water features abound, offering a cooling spray in summer and a natural ice-skating rink in winter. Multiple garden pavilions dot the grounds, with Amalienburg, the palace hunting lodge, famous for its Hall of Mirrors and European rococo design.
The Steinerner Saal (Stone Hall) in the Central Pavilion dates back to 1674. Styled like an Italian villa, its private chambers cover three floors of the central pavilion which are lavishly decorated. The Palace Chapel is elaborately illustrated with the life of Mary Magdalene. 
 Chira Chirakijja / TripSavvy
If you are traveling with little movie buffs, take them to the Bavaria Filmstadt (Bavaria Film Studios), Munich’s answer to Hollywood.
This is Europe’s largest film making center with a storied history of great films. Beloved props include Falkor, the dragon from "The Neverending Story" (Die unendliche Geschichte in German). Drama-loving adults can step into Das Boot (The Boat).
For a bit of live action, there are regular stunt shows of fights, fires, and falls. Guided tours of the studio are available in English.
Chira Chirakijja / TripSavvy
The Isar River's fast-running section known as the Eisbach shoots through the Englischer Garten and provides the rapid waters for surfing, but elsewhere it runs much more calmly.
The river has undergone a mass renovation in Munich and is now to go-to spot for lazy summer days. Rafting, swimming, fishing, picnicking, grilling, or simply sunbathing (with or without clothes) on its rocky shores are a mainstay of sunny days.
Chira Chirakijja / TripSavvy
Located next to Munich's largest synagogue, the Jewish Museum is an eye-catcher. All glass and stone and fronted by a menorah, the museum is unusual in that it studies the immigration. It also covers the history of Munich’s Jewish community, festivals and rites of passage.
The nearby community center offers a school, auditorium and a kosher restaurant.
 Taylor McIntyre / © TripSavvy
This central square is easily identified as the entrance to the Residence Palace, Theatinerkirche, and the regal lions that guard the steps to the Feldherrnhalle (Field Marshals’ Hall).
Ludwigstraße and Briennerstraße lead off from the square, and  Odeonsplatz has traditionally been an important site for parades and events. The annual parade to Oktoberfest follows this route. And under the Nazi regime, a statue honoring fallen soldiers was here and required a salute by all those that passed by. The monument was demolished, but there is still a plaque in the pavement and on the wall of the Residenz.
 Chira Chirakijja / TripSavvy
Peterskirche or St. Peter's Church is Munich's oldest parish church. Rebuilt after a fire and dedicated in 1368, it was established by monks.
It stands apart from the city on a hill appropriately named Petersberg. Inside, red marble monuments by Erasmus Grasser and golden statues grace the sides while paintings adorn the cieling. Climb the 299-steps up the tower with its eight clock faces and eight bells.
  Chira Chirakijja / TripSavvy
Stuttgart may be "car city," but Müncheners also love their cars. BMW's stunning headquarters and factories (BMW Welt) are located next to Olympic Park. A modern twisting design of glass, the museum showcases nearly every model the company has ever made. Sports cars, racing models, and motorcycles all look as if they could speed away at any minute. If you want a BMW to come home with you, there's even a distribution center!
Christopher Larson / TripSavvy
Few people staying in Munich for more than a few days can resist the allure of Germany's most famous castle, Neuschwanstein.
Just two hours from the city, this fairy-tale castle was the basis for the modern castles of Disney. Hidden away above Füssen and framed by the Alps, it receives more than six million visitors a year.
 Listen to the Clock in Marienplatz 
 Drink a Beer at the Biggest Folk Festival in the World 
 Practice Your "Prost!" Year-Round 
 Find the Devil's Footstep 
 Get Nude in the English Garden 
  Try Surfing at the Eisbach Canal  
 Drink Your Beer Outside 
 Live Like a King at the Residence Palace 
 Shop the Farmers' Market 
 Look at New, Old, and Modern Art 
 Reflect at Dachau Concentration Camp 
 Feel the Olympic Spirit 
 Discover the World's Largest Museum of Technology 
  Jump in a Lake  
 Be One with the Animals at the World's First Geo-Zoo 
 Summer Like Royalty at Nymphenburg 
 Take a Ride on the Real Falkor 
 Sunbathe Along the Isar River 
 Study Immigration at Germany's Jewish Museum 
  Admire the Historic Odeonsplatz  
  Worship at St. Peter's Church  
  Feel the Speed at BMW Welt  
 Day Trip to the Most Famous Castle in Germany 

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

As Germany’s 3rd-largest city and the commercial and cultural hub of Bavaria, Munich is big, vibrant, and culturally rich. It’s the home of Germany’s largest Oktoberfest and one of Germany’s oldest Christmas markets, but it’s also beautiful in the spring and summer, with green spaces and museums aplenty and a famous food and drink scene. Given its location, it’s also a good jumping-off point for explorations of the Bavarian countryside, including some of the world’s most ornate castles. With so much to see and do, consider booking one of the excellent tours that Munich has to offer to help you get the lay of the land or more deeply explore a topic or area of the city that interests you. There are lots of wonderful options available, and below we listed the best of the best.
Viator
Munich is a fantastic walking city with endless clean, well-maintained sidewalks and lots of pedestrianized squares, not to mention great architecture, window-shopping, and people-watching at every turn. The city center, or old town, was largely damaged during WWII but has been carefully rebuilt and restored with a historical preservation mindset, so there’s lots of history to take in.
This two-hour walking tour takes you from the city’s central square, Marienplatz, through and around the city’s most iconic attractions: the massive rebuilt Frauenkirche, the city’s famous cathedral; St. Peter’s Church, the oldest church in Munich; the Viktualienmarkt, the historic food market, and the Old Town Hall with its massive moving glockenspiel.
It’s a simple, thoughtful tour that’ll really give you a deeper understanding of the history and importance of this beautiful city.
Getty Images
Hop-on/hop-off tours are fun, affordable, and easy-to-use, and this one, Munich’s best, is no exception. You simply buy a pass for 24 or 48 hours (the buses run from 9:40 a.m. to 6 p.m., but if you buy a pass at, say, noon, it’s good until noon the following day) and your voucher allows you to board and disembark at a comprehensive network of a dozen different stops around the city, each adjacent to an important landmark or district.
You can choose to board the double-decker bus, get comfy in your seat on the top, and simply watch the city go by as you ride the full loop and listen to recorded commentary, or you can stop at the most appealing sightseeing locations and take your time exploring there. More likely, you’ll want to do a combination of the two, and with a full 24 hours to do so (or 48, if you upgrade), you certainly have time to do so. It’s low-maintenance and largely self-directed, but tremendously convenient, especially for dedicated sightseers. 
Getty Images
Segways are really convenient, allowing you to move quickly through a city, covering a lot of ground without tiring out. This tour, led by a guide who is an expert in local history, takes you on a narrated zip throughout Munich’s most famous districts and sites, including Old Town, Odeonsplatz, the Victory Gate, and the Peace Angel. It conveniently starts and ends in Munich’s beautiful English Garden, the city’s equivalent to New York’s Central Park. Its quiet, lush paths offer an ideal place to learn to ride the Segway (don’t worry, your guide will give you an in-depth lesson) and a nice place to take a stroll once your informative tour is over.
Getty Images
Beer is more than just a drink in Bavaria — it’s a fundamental cornerstone of the culture. There are particular local traditions not only for brewing, but also for ordering, for sipping, for pairing with food, and more. Enlist the help of a local brewing expert to show you around and teach you the remarkable history of the region’s most famous beverage.
This tour begins with a guided visit to the Beer and Oktoberfest Museum, a small but fascinating place housed in an Old Town building dating to the 1300s. From there, you’ll head to one of the city’s most famous beer halls, the Hofbrauhaus, where you’ll taste local beers and sample the regional foods that go so well with them: pretzels, spaetzle, and wurst galore while chatting with your guide and fellow travelers. It’s a merry sort of evening that’ll leave you rosy-cheeked and full of new information. (And beer.)
Getty Images
It’s a bit of a luxury, but a private tour is a really wonderful way to learn about a new place. Your guide can cater your tour to your interests, be they history, art, food, or even more obscure things, and you can move at your own pace, taking your time when something strikes you as interesting and moving more quickly when it doesn’t.
This walking tour begins at your hotel lobby or, if you prefer, in the Marienplatz. Among the attractions on the suggested itinerary: the place where Adolf Hitler attempted (and failed) to overthrow the Bavarian government in 1923 in the Beer Hall Putsch, the Munich State Theater and Opera House, and the Royal Residenz, where the Bavarian Royal Family lived for centuries. Take this tour early in your visit if you can, as your guide will be an invaluable resource for everything from restaurant recommendations to entertainment ideas and great little shops and markets that guidebooks don’t mention.
Getty Images
It’s common for those who want to pay their respects at the Dachau Memorial Site stay in Munich, the nearest large city (just an hour by train), and in reverse, for those enjoying a vacation in Munich to take a somber day of remembrance and visit this historic site. This tour makes the latter very easy and is comprehensive enough to work for the former, as well. The five-hour tour, which includes all transportation costs, departs from the Munich Central Train Station (Hauptbanhof) and heads straight to the site of the Dachau Concentration Camp, the first and one of the most brutal of the camps in the Third Reich’s horrific system.
You’ll spend three hours exploring the memorial site, which includes an exhibition center, several surviving buildings, some rebuilt buildings, and a number of different memorials. After you’ve paid your respects and explored the exhibition center, you’ll return directly to Munich by train. Because Dachau does not allow children under 14 at the memorial site, this is not a family tour. 
Getty Images
Thanks to Germany’s King Ludwig II — “the Mad King” — Bavaria is home to several of the world’s most beautiful and famous castles. This comfy tour takes you on a quick trip to two of the most beautiful: the Rococo Linderhof, with its Moorish Pavilion, and the massive, fairytale-like Neuschwanstein, the inspiration for Disney’s famous castle. Note that the tour does not include entry to either of these castles, but the timing purposefully works out so if you’d like to pay to enter (about 25 Euros total), you’ll have plenty of time to do so. The tour also includes time to explore the charming village of Hohenschwangau, at the foot of Neuschwanstein, where you can enjoy a leisurely lunch and some souvenir shopping.
Getty Images
Munich’s massive Oktoberfest draws more visitors than any other festival in the city, and if you’ve considered attending but are a bit overwhelmed by the logistics, this small-group tour is perfect for you. Your tour begins with a 90-minute walking tour of Munich, which is at its most jovial and interesting during Oktoberfest. You’ll see all of the major historic buildings and learn about the history of the city and the origins of this massive festival, whose popularity has spread worldwide. From there, it’s on to Theresienwiese, the festival grounds, where you’ll get a quick tour around (and fitted for lederhosen or a dirndl, if you’d like) before heading to your reserved table in one of the festival’s biggest tents.
Included in the price: two liters of beer and a half-chicken. (Could anything be more Bavarian?) You’ll have the evening to explore the festival grounds with your new friends or on your own, with a guaranteed place to sit and eat in between.
  Best Walking Tour: Munich Old Town Walking  
  Best Bus Tour: Munich City Hop-On Hop-Off Tour  
  Best Segway Tour: Munich 2.5 Hour Segway Tour: Historic Center & English Garden  
  Best Food Tour: Bavarian Beer and Food Evening Tour in Munich  
  Best Private Tour: Private Munich Walking Tour  
  Best Dachau Tour: Dachau Concentration Camp Memorial Site Tour  
  Best Castle Tour: Royal Castles of Neuschwanstein and Linderhof Day Tour  
  Best Oktoberfest Tour: Small-Group Munich City and Oktoberfest Tour  
Munich, located in the South of Germany, is the capital of Bavaria and the gateway to the German Alps. München, the city's native name, is derived from the Old German word Mönche ("monks") and traces back Munich’s origins as a Benedictine monastery during the eighth century. Then, Bavaria was ruled for more than 750 years by the kings of the Wittelsbach Dynasty.
Today, Munich is famous for its interesting mix of traditional Bavarian culture, modern living, and high-tech industries. This city's unique contemporary architecture goes hand in hand with grand avenues, first-class museums, and baroque palaces. Of course, Munich is perhaps most famous for its annual Oktoberfest and its rollicking beer halls.
Get the most out of your trip to Bavaria's heartland with this guide, full of tips on where to stay, how to get around, must-try foods (and beers!), and more.
Best Time to Visit: Munich shines during the spring months, when you'll find great weather and an event calendar packed with festivals and concerts.
Language: German is the main language spoken in Munich, but English is taught in schools and visitors will encounter many English speakers. Many restaurants have English menus available.
Currency: Germany is a member of the European Union and therefore uses the Euro. You can find currency exchanges at many large transit hubs, such as the Munich Airport and the Heimeranplatz station.
Getting Around: Most popular sights and museums are in the city's historic center, which is easily walkable. Should you need to go further afield, Munich's public transportation system, the MVV, is excellent, with modern subways, trams, and buses. 
Travel Tip: Oktoberfest is the star of Munich's event calendar, drawing more than six million visitors each year. As the largest beer festival in the world, visiting during Oktoberfest requires a bit of planning — make your travel arrangements well in advance.
For travelers looking for traditional Germany, Munich is it. Whether you're after biergartens or world-class museums, the city has no shortage of things to do. Stroll around Marienplatz, the city's central square, have a beer at Hofbrauhaus, and spend a sunny afternoon in English Garden, Munich's largest park, to experience a few of the best things the city has to offer. 
There is also no shortage of free things to do in Munich and the city is extremely kid-friendly, with plenty of activities for the whole family. 
If you're looking for traditional German food, Munich is the city for it. Bavarian fare is everywhere here, from schweinshaxe (pork knuckle) to sauerkraut and potatoes. Weisswurst, or white sausage, is a must-try. Made with minced veal and pork, the sausage is seasoned with parsley and other spices. The aptly-named Bratwurstherzl is a popular spot both for weisswurst and other regional specialties, like sauerbraten with potato dumplings and spaetzle.
Of course, given that Munich is a major city, it's not all meat and potatoes here. The city is home to a plethora of international-inspired eateries too, like Nomiya, a yakitori bar-meets-beer hall, and Hey Luigi, a casual Italian restaurant. 
Hofbräuhaus is Munich's most famous beer hall and the largest in Germany, with seating for 5,000 revelers. A visit is a must, but the city is home to other unique beer halls, like Weisses Bräuhaus, where they brew their own wheat beer, and large beer gardens, where you can sip your brew under the shade of ancient trees. 
Munich is divided up into 25 different municipalities (called Stadtbezirke). Altstadt is among the most popular, as this is where many popular attractions, including Viktualienmarkt and Marienplatz are located. If luxury shopping is on your itinerary, you'll want to stay close to Old Town’s Maximilianstrasse. Au is another popular neighborhood. This cozy quarter is home to the Paulaner am Nockherberg beer festival each year.
Most hotels are located in the city center and with walking distance of the main train station, although a few great options are a bit further out. Hotel Laimer Hof, a 25-minute train ride from the city center, is among the city's best rated, with 23 quaint rooms. In the heart of the historic center, CORTIINA, a TripSavvy Editors' Choice Award winner in 2018, is located a stone's throw from Old Town Hall and St. Peter’s Church. 
See our recommendation for the best hotels in Munich here.
Munich’s International Airport, Franz Josef Strauss Flughafen, is the second busiest airport in Germany after Frankfurt. The airport is frequently rated as one of the best in the world. Located 19 miles northeast of Munich, the airport is also very well connected to the city: Take the metro S8 or S2 to reach Munich's city center in approximately 40 minutes.
The city is well connected to trains and other forms of public transportation, so unless you're planning on exploring Bavaria extensively, renting a car is not necessary. The city is also served by Uber and a bike share. 
While service is included in the bill, generally waiters are tipped 5 percent for good service.
Many Germans speak English, but learning a few words of German — how to say hello, thank you, and goodbye, for instance — is a courteous gesture.
If you visit Munich's English Garden, you should know that nudity is allowed in designated areas. The practice isn't as common as it once was, but it is a defining feature of the park. 
  Planning Your Trip  
  Things to Do  
  What to Eat and Drink  
  Where to Stay in Munich  
  Getting There  
  Culture and Customs  
 Money Saving Tips 
Dachau, one of the first concentration camps of Nazi Germany, is a short trip outside of the city center. A visit here is both horrifying and moving. 
While the Residence, a former Bavarian palace, isn't free, roaming the vast gardens and impressive courtyards.
In lieu of more expensive restaurant meals, shop at Viktualienmarkt for local and fresh produce, snacks, and other artisan goodies.
Oktoberfest is free! But accommodations can be pricey for this massive celebrations, so book in advance.
Looking for a luxury hotel in Munich? Here are the top 5-star hotels in the Bavarian capital. From old-world elegance to modern chic environments, these luxury Munich hotels offer first-class service, outstanding amenities, and a picture perfect location.
(Note: If you are looking for accommodations during Oktoberfest, know that prices will at least be double their normal rates and will generally book up early.
And if your budget doesn't cover top-notch hotels, try our list of the Best Hostels in Munich.)
Located in the heart of Munich, this Neo-Renaissance building was constructed in 1880 and housed Munich’s Opera House before it was turned into a hotel. Today, the Mandarin Oriental successfully blends traditional European elegance with Asian design. The sun-filled rooms boast German Biedermeier furniture, elegantly combined with Asian antiques, silk textiles, and art.
You’ll find a flat screen television, mini bar, as well as a personalized welcome note in your room – just one of the many signs of the hotel’s superb service. Another highlight is the heated infinity pool with its 360-degree view.
Address: Neuturmstr. 1, 80331, Munich
Opened in 1841, the Bayerischer Hof has a long-standing tradition of luxury. From the lavishly decorated lobby and its 337 rooms, to its five bars and six restaurants, the hotel combines the charm of days gone by with modern elegance. Take you pick between different room styles or choose from the themed suites like “Paris” and “5th Avenue”.
Indulge in the hotel’s Blue Spa, which is set on the rooftop and offers a breathtaking view of the iconic Munich church, the Frauenkirche. The swimming pool has a sliding glass roof, so you can swim under Bavarian skies in summer. Besides saunas, massages, and beauty treatments, you can work out in the state-of-the-art fitness studio.
Address: Promenadeplatz 2-6, 80333, Munich, Bavaria, Germany
Part of the Rocco Forte Hotel Group, the Charles Hotel overlooks the picturesque Botanical Garden and is close to Munich’s central station. The sleek and sophisticated design of the hotel gets a warm touch by the original paintings of Munich’s 19th century artist Franz von Lenbach.
The rooms and suites are stylish as well as spacious and the rooftop terrace has vistas of Munich’s historical skyline. Inside, guests can sweat off those extra-large beers with the sauna, swim in the indoor pool, and make use of the gym.
The Charles also pampers its small guests; kids can have their own small robes and mini slippers, Charly the Lion stuffed toy, and babysitting is available upon request - a treat for the whole family.
Address: Sophienstrasse 28, 80333, Munich
The Hotel Vier Jahreszeiten Kempinski has hosted many famous guests. Its name Vier Jahreszeiten literally translates to "Four Seasons", but it isn't associated with the “Four Seasons Hotel” chain.
Built in 1858 by King Maximilian, the hotel is aptly located on Maximilianstrasse, one of the city’s most expensive shopping streets. Inspired by the grand era of Munich’s kings, the rooms and suites boast a simple and elegant luxury, where design furniture goes hand in hand with antiques and opulent art work. Some rooms even have murals on the ceilings.
There is a pool, a luxurious day spa, gourmet Schwarzreiter Tagesbar & Restaurant, and the Jahreszeiten Bar.
Address: Maximilianstraße 17, 80539 Munich
The Hotel Munchen Palace is family-run and you feel the personal atmosphere throughout the hotel. Each room has hard-wood floors and is individually decorated with lots of attention to detail. The furniture is tasteful, the colors muted, and classic art adorns the walls.
In summer, take a break in the lovely leafy courtyard garden where everything from breakfast to cocktails is served. If you want a maximum of comfort and privacy, get the Maisonette Suite which extends over two levels and has its own private rooftop terrace and private sauna.
Set in Munich’s posh area of Bogenhausen, it’s a 15-minute walk to Munich’s Altstadt (Old Town) and bus and subway stops are around the corner. Athletic guests can even take advantage of the hotel’s complimentary bike rental.
Address: Trogerstrasse 21, 81675, Munich
 Mandarin Oriental Munich 
 Bayerischer Hof 
 The Charles Hotel 
 Hotel Vier Jahreszeiten Kempinski 
 Hotel Munchen Palace 
If you are spending the holiday season in Munich, you are in for a real treat. Atmospheric weihnachtsmärkte (Christmas markets) spring up all over Munich’s Old Town, churches and cathedrals are filled with holiday singing and organ recitals, and Munich’s shopping streets are decked out in sparkling lights. And all that with the romantic backdrop of the snow-capped Alps.
Munich offers German Christmas at its finest. Our guide to Christmas in Munich has 7 ways to enjoy the holidays in Bavaria.
Munich’s famous Münchner Christkindlmarkt rund um den Marienplatz (Christmas Market on Marienplatz) dates back to 1642. It is celebrated in the heart of the altstadt (Old Town) with a 100-feet high Christmas tree that towers over traditionally decorated booths.
You can warm your hands and your heart with mulled wine or feuerzangenbowle and lebkuchen (gingerbread), or buy gifts like Bavarian woodcarvings, handmade toys, and ornate ornaments.
What’s the holiday season without Christmas carols? One of the best spots to listen to German Christmas music is the impressive Frauenkirche (Church of Our Lady). Its twin towers are a landmark of Munich's impressive skyline.
Throughout December, Bavarian choirs and musicians herald the season with classical concerts, organ recitals, and music-filled church services. Note that church services free, but tickets are required for concerts.
GettyImages / Cyril Gosselin
 
The Tollwood Winter Festival is held on the same fairgrounds as Oktoberfest and feature an international Christmas market. Here you can hunt for treasures from around the world and sample organic ethnic food. Locals love this festival for its colorful cultural program, which is famous for its world music, art workshops, plus theater and circus performances.
The market is held from late November til end of December. Entrance is free, but some performances require tickets. If you arrive after Christmas, take part in the legendary Silvester (New Year’s Eve) party.
Munich has several ice skating rinks to choose from, but the best is Munich’s largest open-air ice-skating rink, Muenchner Eizsauber (Munich Ice Magic).
It is set-up every November through January in Munich’s famous shopping district at Karlspatz Square. Bring the kids during the day or come here with a date to glide under the stars at night with chill music and a light show. You can treat yourself to a warm mug of heiße schokolade (hot chocolate) from the booths surrounding the ice rink to warm up.
Entrance costs 5 - 8.50 euros (depending on time of day; discounts for children) and skates are available for rental.
Kripperlmarkt is Munich’s manger market and focuses on the holiday's religious roots. It is walking distance to the city’s central christkindlmarkt and dates back to 1757.
The market is devoted to the biblical manger and nativity figures made in Germany. From baby Jesus and the Christmas angel, to animals, lanterns for the barn, and the gifts of the three Magi, the manger market offers wonderful souvenirs and everything you’ll need to create your own nativity scene.
In the center of Munich’s grandiose Royal Residence, you’ll find a quaint Christmas village. Small wooden huts are dwarfed by the palace, complete with a little chapel and a life-seized nativity scene.
Watch traditional toy makers, goldsmiths, wood carvers, glassblowers, and knife grinders at work, while the kids take a ride on historic carousels or meet Nikolaus, the German Santa Claus. There is also a stage with daily live music and entertainment.
Munich is one of the more conservative places in Germany, but that doesn't mean their largest festivals don't cater to the LGBT community. If you had your share of traditional German Christmas markets, visit Pink Christmas for a gay and lesbian market.
There are white pagoda tents and delightfully tacky pink plastic Christmas trees. Everything is softly lit as market-goers enjoy the handcrafted wares from local designers and delicious market food. Pink Christmas is free, beloved for its live entertainment, and it’s a fun place for the whole family.
 Visit Traditional Christmas Markets 
 Listen to Christmas Music at the Cathedral 
 Go International at Tollwood Winter Festival 
 Skate at the Biggest Ice Rink in Munich 
 Practice Piety at the Manger Market 
 Visit the Christmas Village in the Royal Residence 
 Go Jolly and Gay at the Pink Christmas Market 
Munich has benefited from its rich history and has many fine buildings and sights that glorify its wealth. Luckily for budget travelers, the Bavarian capital also offers many free things to see and do. Here are the best free Munich attractions and sights, from walking tours to a singing clock to open-air markets.
Sometimes the best things in Munich are free.
Munich's iconic Glockenspiel sits within the Rathaus (city hall). Every day at 11 a.m. and noon (and 17:00 in summer), a crowd gathers in front of the building on Marienplatz to hear the traditional Glockenspiel chime for a 15-minute show.
For over 100 years it has reenacted historical Bavarian events with 43 bells and 32 life-sized figures. Look for the golden bird that chirps three times to mark the end of each show.
Insider tip: If you miss the main show times, an angel and a night watchman make an appearance at 21:00.
The magnificent Frauenkirche (Church of Our Lady) is also located on Marienplatz. Its sturdy towers shape Munich's skyline.
Inside, visitors walk around the Teufelstritt "Devil's Footstep," one of the few surviving elements of the pre-​WWII cathedral. Legend holds that this black mark in the shape of a footprint is where the devil stood.
Climb the steps of the cathedral’s towers for a breathtaking view of Munich's cityscape and the Bavarian Alps.
The Feldherrenhalle, or Field Marshal’s Hall, was commissioned by King Ludwig to commemorate the Bavarian army. In 1923, the stately hall became infamous when Hitler’s attempted coup to overtake the Bavarian government was defeated in front of the Field Marshal’s Hall. However, it still has issues as a cult site for National Socialist.
The Residence is the former royal palace of the Bavarian monarchs, and its oldest buildings date back to the 14th century. It is also the largest city palace in Germany.
Today, the Residence houses one of the best European museums of interior decoration. Don't miss the Antiquarium (Hall of Antiquities) from 1568. It is the largest Renaissance hall north of the Alps and beyond beautiful with a ceiling of gold and paintings.
Although the museum itself is not free, you can roam ten impressive courtyards and beautiful historical gardens without paying a cent.
The bustling Viktualienmarkt is Munich’s oldest and best farmers' market, dating back to 1807. Locals, tourists, and even the city’s top chefs come here to fill their baskets and marvel at the traditionally decorated booths. Browsing this outdoor market is a feast for all senses and while any time is a good time to visit, make sure to stop by for a festival. Everything from weighing celebrities to brewers' day to the opening of Spargelzeit is cause for celebration.
If shopping has worn you out, take a break at the Biergarten Viktualienmarkt. Every brewery in Munich presents its beer specialties here with a rotation of about six weeks.
The Catholic Theaterinerkirche, Theatine Church, adds some Mediterranean flavor to Munich. Built in the 17th century by an Italian architect, the inside is made out of white stucco, while the façade is awash in warm yellow colors. The church, one of the finest examples of Italian baroque in Munich, borders the royal Odeon’s Square.
Chira Chirakijja / TripSavvy
Relax in the English Garden (Englischer Garten), the green heart of Munich, which is even bigger than Central Park in New York. Locals love their park for its many lakes, traditional beer gardens, overgrown paths, and lush lawns like the Schoenfeld Wiese, where you can also sunbathe nude.
Take part in a free, English-speaking walking tour through Munich and get a personal introduction to the Bavarian capital.
There are a plethora of companies which operate in Munich with some specializing in local guides, different languages, etc. Most walking tours start in Marienplatz. Look for guides that are entertaining as well as knowledgeable.
Did you know that Oktoberfest is free? You don't have to pay admission to visit the most famous beer festival in the world, and all Oktoberfest parades and events are free too.
The first Oktoberfest was held in 1810 to celebrate the marriage of Bavarian Crown Prince Ludwig and Princess Therese. Today, the largest beer festival in the world attracts over 6 million visitors annually who are free to enjoy traditional oompah music, rides, and atmosphere.
 Chira Chirakijja / TripSavvy
Munich is the gateway to the Alps and surrounded by beautiful Bavarian countryside. Take a trip to the Würmsee (in German), which lies 16 miles south of Munich.
Ideal for a day trip, it is lined by some of King Ludwig’s best palaces. The lake is a favorite destination for many locals.
 Glockenspiel 
 Frauenkirche 
  Feldherrnhalle  
  Residenz  
 Viktualienmarkt 
  Theatine Church  
 The English Garden 
 Free Munich Walking Tour 
 Oktoberfest 
 Lake Starnberg 

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Best Overall: Hotel Laimer Hof — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Pride themselves on their traditional Bavarian hospitality, ensuring that you feel at home from the moment you step through the door."
Best Budget: Hotel Mirabell Munich — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Within easy walking distance of the Old Town, meaning you can explore much of the city for free."
Best Boutique: CORTIINA Hotel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Despite its antiquated surrounding, the hotel is a celebration of contemporary, minimalist elegance."
Best for Families: Maximilian Munich Apartments & Hotel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"You don’t have to navigate the public transport system to explore the Old Town - a major plus for a hassle-free family holiday."
Best for Romance: Hotel München Palace — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"From the courtyard garden to the rooftop terrace, the hotel is filled with quiet corners for romantic moments with your loved one."
Best Luxury: Mandarin Oriental Munich — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Its grand 19th-century façade sets the tone for a luxurious experience, defined by the brand’s unique blend of Oriental style and local hospitality."
Best for Nightlife: Bayerischer Hof Hotel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"The top choice for partygoers with an unlimited budget...offers a vibrant Old Town location and no fewer than six in-house bars."
Best Business: Hotel Prinzregent Munchen — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"A top choice for corporate travelers, thanks to its location within easy walking distance of International Congress Centre Munich."
Best B&B: Pension am Jakobsplatz — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Hosts are unfailingly friendly, offering insider advice about local attractions and doing their best to accommodate guest requests."
Courtesy of Hotel Laimer Hof
Hotel Laimer Hof is located to the west of the city center near Nymphenburg Palace, the Baroque summer residence of past Bavarian monarchs. It’s a 25-minute S-Bahn ride from the Old Town, but despite its relatively remote location, it is rated as the top Munich hotel on TripAdvisor. Built in 1890, the exterior charms with saffron yellow walls and turreted roofs. The Rösch family pride themselves on their traditional Bavarian hospitality, ensuring that you feel at home from the moment you step through the door.
There are 23 rooms, all of which are decorated in simple shades of white and red. Amenities include an ensuite bathroom, Sky TV, free Wi-Fi and a minibar, while iPod docks and DVD players can be borrowed from reception. Enjoy a hearty breakfast showcasing German meats, pastries and cheeses for just €10 per person, then spend a cozy evening sipping regional beers in the hotel lobby. Free parking, bicycle rentals and laundry facilities complete Hotel Laimer Hof’s list of amenities.
Courtesy of Hotel Mirabell
Located a six-minute walk from Munich Central Station, Hotel Mirabell Munich couldn’t be more convenient for those arriving by public transport. It’s also within easy walking distance of the Old Town, meaning you can explore much of the city for free. The service is excellent and the decor is simple, but stylish. Superior Rooms are the most affordable, yet remain surprisingly well-proportioned. All room categories include air-conditioning, a coffee maker, Sky TV, a tablet and free Wi-Fi.
With breakfast included, you have one less meal to budget for. It’s an impressive perk, featuring regional and organic produce, as well as a range of options for gluten-free and lactose-intolerant guests. The hotel has a 24-hour bar, and although there’s no restaurant, the concierge can assist with recommendations and bookings for local dining spots. Other useful amenities include an Internet Corner with free printing and underground parking available at a reasonable rate of €15 per day.
Courtesy of CORTIINA Hotel
CORTIINA Hotel is ideally situated in the heart of Munich’s historic center, near the Old Town Hall and St. Peter’s Church. Despite its antiquated surrounding, the hotel is a celebration of contemporary, minimalist elegance. Inside, natural stone, sustainable wood and shimmering glass are all ingeniously employed to establish CORTIINA’s reputation as a leading design hotel. With just 75 rooms and suites, this is the perfect choice for travelers with a penchant for intimacy and uniqueness.
All categories create a sense of space with neutral tones, parquet floors and abundant natural light. An iPod dock and an LCD TV keep you entertained, while the rainforest shower and rubber mattress are designed with comfort in mind. Downstairs, you’ll find a small fitness center and Grapes Weinbar, one of the best-loved gathering spots in Munich. Sample rare vintages by the fireplace or pair craft cocktails with gourmet bites on the terrace.
Courtesy of Maximilian Munich Apartments & Hotel
From Maximilian Munich, you can walk to Marienplatz in just seven minutes. This means you don’t have to navigate the public transport system to explore the Old Town - a major plus for a hassle-free family holiday. The hotel is a haven of peace, built around a whimsical rose garden. There are 54 studios and suites and all have a TV, a DVD player and free Wi-Fi (perfect for rainy-day entertainment).
Suites with space for up to six people cater to larger families, while all rooms boast a fully equipped kitchen - making it easy for you to save money by self-catering. When you need a break from cooking, Kleines Max restaurant serves a generous breakfast buffet and a la carte Italian dishes. The hotel also has a spa, great for mother-daughter bonding time or for parents in need of a moment’s peace.
Courtesy of Hotel Muenchen Palace
Located just outside the city center near scenic Maximilian Park, Hotel München Palace offers couples the quietude they need to re-connect. Filled with classical furniture and original artworks, it’s also an enclave of timeless grace. There are 89 rooms and suites, all with soft lighting, a marble bathroom and a complimentary minibar. Choose a Deluxe Double Room with a balcony and a decadent king bed for an extra special stay.
From the courtyard garden to the rooftop terrace, the hotel is filled with quiet corners for romantic moments with your loved one. A wellness area offers a sauna and massages, while Palace Restaurant is an excellent choice for candlelit dinners. Afterwards, celebrate a landmark anniversary with cocktails in the bar. The Munich in Love package offers additional touches ranging from late check-out to chocolates and champagne in your room. 
Courtesy of Mandarin Oriental, Munich
Five-star Mandarin Oriental Munich occupies a prestigious address near the designer shops of the Old Town’s Maximilianstrasse. Its grand 19th-century façade sets the tone for a luxurious experience, defined by the brand’s unique blend of Oriental style and local hospitality. Each of the 73 rooms and suites pampers with goose-down bedding, Bang & Olufsen entertainment systems and a marble bathroom complete with underfloor heating.
The sprawling Presidential Suite represents the height of luxury - think Swarovski chandeliers and ancient Chinese artifacts. The hotel also has a selection of restaurants and bars. Experience Japanese-Peruvian fusion cuisine at Matsuhisa Munich or head up to The Terrace for cocktails and 360º views by the rooftop pool. Other wellness facilities include a gym, a Turkish steam bath and a Finnish sauna.
Courtesy of Hotel Bayerischer Hof München
The top choice for partygoers with an unlimited budget, Bayerischer Hof Hotel offers a vibrant Old Town location and no fewer than six in-house bars. Highlights include rooftop Blue Spa Bar; Trader Vic’s, known for its South Seas cocktails; and the Polar Bar, a winter hotspot complete with fireplaces and Glühwein. The Piano Bar and the nightclub also host regular live music. You can refuel in between parties in one of four restaurants, while the Blue Spa offers a fitness center, yoga classes and massages. All room categories are designed for relaxation, so you can stay up until the wee hours and still wake up feeling refreshed. Expect a luxurious bed, a marble bathroom and a flat screen TV as standard.
Courtesy of Hotel Prinzregent
With its warm, Italian-inspired interiors, family-run Hotel Prinzregent is not your average business hotel. However, it is a top choice for corporate travelers, thanks to its location within easy walking distance of International Congress Centre Munich. There are three event rooms on-site, with space for up to 70 delegates. In all bedrooms, business essentials include a desk and free Wi-Fi, while soundproof windows and extra-long beds ensure a good night’s sleep. Start your day with homemade specialties at the breakfast buffet, then meet your colleagues for dinner at Restaurant Prinzregent. The hotel wellness area includes a fitness room, a spa and two saunas.
Courtesy of Pension am Jakobsplatz
Pension am Jakobsplatz earns top ratings on TripAdvisor for its unbeatable location. You’re 400 meters from Marienplatz and Munich’s world-famous Victuals Market. The B&B hosts are unfailingly friendly, offering insider advice about local attractions and doing their best to accommodate guest requests. Although small, all of the four bedrooms are spotlessly clean. The decor is contemporary and amenities include an ensuite bathroom, a TV, free Wi-Fi and breakfast. Every morning, sit down to a healthy spread of locally sourced meats, pastries and cheeses.
  Best Overall: Hotel Laimer Hof  
  Best Budget: Hotel Mirabell Munich  
  Best Boutique: CORTIINA Hotel  
  Best for Families: Maximilian Munich Apartments & Hotel  
  Best for Romance: Hotel München Palace  
  Best Luxury: Mandarin Oriental Munich  
  Best for Nightlife: Bayerischer Hof Hotel  
  Best Business: Hotel Prinzregent Munchen  
  Best B&B: Pension am Jakobsplatz  
