Naples, Napoli in Italian, is the third-largest city in Italy, located in the Campania region in the southern part of the country. It's about two hours south of Rome, on the coast on the northern edge of the Bay of Naples, one of the most beautiful bays in Italy. Its harbor is the most important port in southern Italy.
The name of Naples comes from the Greek Neapolis, meaning new city. Its close proximity to many interesting sites, such as Pompeii and the Bay of Naples, makes it a good base for exploring the area. Naples is a vibrant and chaotic city, full of wonderful historical and artistic treasures and narrow, winding streets with small shops. You could easily spend a few days here and just begin to scratch the surface. 
Here are some of the must-see sights for first-time and repeat visitors to Naples:
Pizza, one of Italy's most famous foods, originated in Naples and is taken very seriously here. There are even rules about what types of flour, tomatoes, cheese and olive oil can be used in authentic Neapolitan pizza. Be sure to seek out a restaurant with an authentic wood-burning oven – if you've never tried pizza cooked this way before, you're in for a life-changing experience!
Pizza isn't the only Italian dish that originated in Naples. Eggplant parmesan was first served here, and the region is often associated with the traditional spaghetti and tomato sauce. And since Naples is a port city, excellent seafood is easy to find. 
Naples is also known for its wines, and for its rich, decadent desserts, such as zeppole, a doughnut-like pastry served on St. Joseph's Day and Easter. It's also the home of limoncello, a lemon liqueur. 
Where to Eat in Naples' Historic Center
Naples has one of the best and biggest New Year's Eve fireworks displays in Italy. During Christmas, hundreds of nativity scenes decorate the city and the streets. Via San Gregorio Armeno in central Naples is filled with displays and stalls selling Nativity scenes.
Probably the most important festival in Naples is the San Gennaro Feast Day, celebrated on September 19 at the Cathedral with a religious ceremony and procession and street fair. On Easter, there are many decorations and a big parade. 
Naples is the main transportation hub for southern Italy, with several major train lines. The train and bus stations are in the huge Piazza Garibaldi, on the eastern side of the city. Naples has an airport, Aeroporto Capodichino, with flights to other parts of Italy and to Europe. A bus connects the airport with Piazza Garibaldi. Ferries and hydrofoils run from Molo Beverello to the islands of Capri, Ischia, Procida, and Sardinia.
To put it the most mildly, traffic in Naples is hectic – there's absolutely no reason for tourists to try to drive here. The city has a large but crowded network of buses, plus trams, a subway, and funiculars. Most sights in the historic center are within a reasonable walking distance of one another, though a word of caution: drivers in Naples are aggressive and not always willing to yield to pedestrians. Be very, very careful when crossing streets, even at marked crosswalks.
Naples' suburban train line, the Ferrovia Circumvesuviana, connects to Herculaneum, Pompeii, and Sorrento. Read more about Day Trips from Naples.
Naples gets quite hot in summer, so spring and fall are the best times to visit. Since Naples is near the coast, it's more temperate in winter than the interior cities of Italy.
