
Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Nice is not surprisingly full of luxury hotels, many of which have been accommodating royalty, the rich and famous for centuries. The list includes a historic and architectural wonder, hotels with fabulous views of the sea, and the best of French hospitality.
Edited by Mary Anne Evans 
The Hotel Negresco is a Nice institution, and its Belle Epoque architecture marked by its pink dome is a focal point of most shoreline photos of Nice. This seafront hotel is the ultimate place to stay in Nice, with richly appointed lobby and 94 fabulous rooms and 31 suites full of antique furniture. It is known for its superb services, and its private beach. This is also a pet-friendly hotel, with guest pets receiving the same white-glove attention like a concierge placing water and food for the pet or arranging walks for your pet. Le Relais Bar is the place to spot the stars who have been coming here for decades. And it’s extremely high-tech so you might need a bit of help with the lights and television. You can eat Michelin starred food in the Chantecler restaurant or try the well-priced La Rotonde brasserie with its 19th-century fairground look, complete with carrousel.
 
When you're looking for a room in Nice and having a hard time, try the enormous Radisson with more rooms (331) than any other in Nice. It’s on the seaside Promenade des Anglais, so request one of the rooms with a large balcony overlooking the water. It’s halfway between the airport and the Old Town, so great for getting to after a long flight, but not so good if you want to be near the action; you’ll have to take a taxi or bus.
There’s a rooftop terrace and pool where you can have a drink. Otherwise go to their private Régence Plage (which you have to pay for), with dining facilities. Free access to the fitness centre is a definite plus and the two restaurants serve a variety of dishes, both local Mediterranean and international.
On the Promenade des Anglais, this luxury 5-star hotel has everything you would expect. Located in a historic Art Deco, six-storey hotel, the décor is elegant and modern with all the comforts you need. There are 187 rooms, but if you can afford it, go for the top floor suites which have a superb view. The pool looks out onto the sea and is the place for a drink or meal. The restaurant is very good, but pricey while live piano music gives the bar a good vibe. There’s sauna and Turkish bath and business and conference facilities.
If you like to be in the thick of things, Nice's 4-star Hotel Beau Rivage is the perfect choice. It is on the sea, in Nice’s charming old town and mere steps from Place Massena, the Rue de France pedestrian zone and the Cours Selaya. Built in 1860, it was restyled in 2004 and is now chic and contemporary and rooms are a good size. Rooms with terraces look out onto the interior patio; some suites have outdoor areas. There’s a great beach club where you can hire a lounger and look at the fabulous view.
And it is one of the great bargains of Nice, with good value rates. 
Book a room with a balcony that has a view over the edge of the world at this boutique hotel which has just 38 rooms and 1 suite. At least that is how it feels at the Hotel Suisse Nice, situated where the Nice shoreline pushes out towards the sea. This hotel easily has one of the best views in all of Nice. You know all those splendid shoreline photos you've seen of Nice? Most were taken right about here. The hotel is just below the Chateau, and a 1-minute walk to Nice’s Old Port, the Cours Selaya and Old Nice.
Near the port, this delightful hotel has wonderful views over the sea. It’s only about a five minute walk to the old town. The hotel is built on a rocky headland, so the 60 rooms and apartments are seemingly scattered almost at random. It gives the place a great escape from it all appeal. The Mediterranean colour scheme suits the hotel beautifully and rooms are lovely and light. Only Superior and Deluxe rooms have balconies or terraces, so specify when you book if that’s what you want.
There’s a lovely hotel terrace with a bar, the le Patio restaurant which serves excellent food at reasonable prices, and a pool.
  Hotel Negresco in Nice  
  Radisson Blu  
  Hyatt Regency Nice, Palais de la Méditerranée  
  Hotel Beau Rivage  
  Hotel Suisse  
  La Pérouse Hotel  
