Oslo, Norway is a popular port of call for many summer northern European and Baltic cruises. It also is an entry point for those flying to Norway for a Hurtigruten cruise of western Norway between Kirkenes and Bergen.
With only 600,000 residents, Oslo is a small European capital, but has many interesting, diverse sites for tourists. Cruise ships usually spend one day in Oslo, and cruise passengers can choose sites rich in history, art, and sports. I have been to Oslo three times and still haven't seen it all, but these 10 suggestions of things to do in Oslo are a good start for visitors. These pictures from Oslo offer a sampling of things to do and see in Oslo with a day in port or an extended stay in the city before or after a cruise vacation.
The Norwegian National Ballet and Opera in Oslo dominates the harbor. Its designers planned for it to look like a giant iceberg, and I think they succeeded, don't you?
The Astrup Fearnley museum opening in September 2012 and features a private collection of contemporary art. Many of the works are provocative and conversation-starting.
This modern area is a good place to shop, dine, or enjoy a drink.
Sitting at the end of a 60-mile long fjord, Oslo is a great port of call. This picture shows the famous Holmenkollen Ski Jump on a hill high over the city.
View of downtown Oslo from the cruise ship pier.
View of downtown Oslo as seen from the Akershus Fortress near the cruise ship pier.
The two brick towers of Oslo's City Hall dominate the Oslo skyline.
Fountain near City Hall in Oslo, Norway
The Nobel Peace Prize is awarded each December at the City Hall in Oslo, Norway.
The interior of Oslo's City Hall has over 20,000 square feet of colorful murals celebrating Norwegian society.
Norway's Royal Palace is open for guided tours on certain days during the summer months. Same-day tickets can be purchased at the Post Office in downtown, which is just a short walk from the cruise ship pier. Tickets can also be purchased at the palace, but the number of English-language tours each day is limited.
Thor Heyerdahl sailed the reed boat the Ra II 3,000 miles across the Atlantic in an attempt to prove that Africans could have populated Barbados in the Caribbean.
In 1947, Thor Heyerdahl sailed the Kon-Tiki reed raft over 4,000 miles across the Pacific from South America to Polynesia.
Roald Amundsen and his crew of six sailed the polar sloop Gjoa to the Northwest Passage in 1903-1906.
Oslo (which was called Christiania in 1624-1878, and Kristiania in 1878-1924) is Norway's capital. Oslo is also the biggest city in Norway. The population of Oslo is about 545,000, however, 1.3 million live in the greater Oslo metropolitan area, and there are about 1.7 million inhabitants in the entire Oslo Fjord region. 
The city center of Oslo is centrally located and easy to find at the end of the Oslo Fjord from where the city surrounds both sides of the fjord like a horseshoe.
It's easy to find flights to Oslo-Gardermoen, and if you're within ​​Scandinavia already, there are several ways to get from city to city. The public transportation system in Oslo itself is quite extensive, punctual, and affordable. All public transport in Oslo operates on a common ticket system, allowing free transfer within one hour with a regular ticket.
Oslo (coordinates: 59° 56'N 10° 45'E) is found at the Oslofjord's northernmost tip. There are forty (!) islands within the city area and 343 lakes in Oslo.
Oslo includes many parks with lots of nature to see, which gives Oslo a relaxing, green appearance. Wild moose is sometimes seen in suburban areas of Oslo in winter. Oslo has a hemiboreal continental climate and the average temperatures are:
The city center of Oslo is situated at the end of the Oslofjord from where the city sprawls out both to the north and to the south on both sides of the fjord, which gives the city area a slight U shape. The Greater Oslo region covers a population of approximately 1.3 million at the current time and is growing at a steady rate with migrants coming from all Scandinavian countries and many countries around the world, making Oslo a true metropolis of all colors and cultures.
Although the city's population is small compared to most European capitals, it occupies a large land area covered by forests, hills, and lakes. This is definitely a destination where you cannot forget to bring your camera, no matter what time of year you are visiting.
Oslo was founded circa 1050 by Harold III. In the 14th century, Oslo came under the dominance of the Hanseatic League. After a great fire in 1624, the city was rebuilt and renamed Christiania (later also Kristiania) until 1925 when the name Oslo was made official again. In World War II, Oslo fell (Apr. 9, 1940) to the Germans, and it was occupied until the surrender (May 1945) of the German forces in Norway. The neighboring industrial commune of Aker was incorporated into Oslo in 1948.
There are several great ideas for day trips from Oslo and there is a day trip for every type of traveler and every season. Some focus on sightseeing, others on city destinations or relaxing scenery near Oslo. 
Day trips from Oslo to Lillehammer, the famous romantic Norwegian town, are becoming more popular each year. Trains leave hourly from Oslo to Lillehammer.
You can also drive to Lillehammer by simply following the E6 highway. Lillehammer is a two-hour trip from Oslo. A destination that's scenic in summer, and romantic in winter.
Copenhagen's Tivoli was the model for this amusement park outside Oslo. Filled with loop and corkscrew-style roller coasters, TusenFryd also offers a water park, a 67-meter spaceshot, carousels, and more than 20 other rides.
A bus runs between Oslo's main bus station and TusenFryd during opening hours. It's a great day trip from Oslo for families.
Here's one of the most popular day tours of Oslo: The Grand Tour. It's an interesting 7.5 hour guided tour by sailboat and bus, showing you all around Oslo. Stops include Polarship Farm, Holmenkollen Ski Jump, Vigeland Park, the Viking ships, and the Norwegian Folk Museum.​
This guided tour operates May through September and is great if you want the comfort and convenience of a guided ​group tour.
Bergen is absolutely doable as a day trip from Oslo, but you'll have to fly. Driving from Oslo to Bergen takes about seven hours. Flying from Oslo to Bergen, on the other hand, is a quick 50-minute trip.
Considering flight prices start around $150, this may not be a day trip suitable for budget travelers, though.
The same goes for a day trip from Oslo to Trondheim. It's too far to drive but if you don't mind a one-hour flight, the historic city of Trondheim is a unique destination for a day trip from Oslo.
Add the historic and scenic 2.5-hour walking tour of Trondheim to your day, and you'll be all set.
Plan a relaxing day trip to the parks and gardens around Oslo. Especially Vigeland Park and the royal Slottskogen should be on your list. Slottskogen, which surrounds the Royal Palace in Oslo, even lets you witness the Changing of the Guard.
If you have some time left in the afternoon, also stop by the beautiful Botanisk Hage Gardens & Museum (the Botanical Garden of Oslo).
The Holmenkollen Ski Jump is Norway's most popular sports-related attraction for travelers. Visitors can enjoy lots of interesting ski history and a beautiful view of Oslo and the surrounding Oslo Fjord. And if you get bored, you can even experience flying 100 meters in the world famous ski jumping hill...inside the ski-simulator, that is.
This idea for a day trip from Oslo is suitable for all seasons.
Just want to relax on your spare day in Oslo? Then just spend your day at one of the nearby beaches. Summer travelers are often surprised at the many beautiful beaches in Norway.
With a short swimming season due to the weather in Norway, it's best to learn where the best beaches in Norway are before you travel.
How about a trip exploring the shopping areas of this bustling metropolitan area? There are four major shopping areas in Oslo (especially the popular Karl Johans Gate pedestrian zone), and it's fun to combine two or three for a day of shopping in the Norwegian capital.
In Oslo, shops are usually open from 10 am to 5 pm on weekdays, with extended evening hours on Thursdays. This is a great day trip idea in winter, too!
They say the Danes are the jolliest people in Scandinavia, but the Norwegians would argue they are. And they could be right. They can appear somber on the street, but get them into a social situation and it’s all smiles and laughter. The Norwegians know how to enjoy life and it shows in Oslo, a city of nature and museums on Norway’s southern coast. It is also the largest city and capital of this Nordic country. One note: Oslo is one of the most expensive cities in the world (for instance, a pint of Haagen Dazs is $10), so spend wisely and frugally to make your money last.
This is a good time to take out the Oslo travel guide that you bought before leaving (you'll pay through the nose if you wait to buy one in Oslo); scan it now for ideas. While you’re deciding how to spend your time in Oslo and the environs, just walk around the city streets a little. You’ll find Oslo is full of sidewalk cafes with people chatting (even if it drizzles), charming traditional architecture, and extremely livable neighborhoods that are full of trees and flowers in summer and become a wonderland of snow and well-plowed streets in winter. With a city population of only 634,293 and roughly a million in the metropolitan region, it never seems crowded; in fact, take a walk on side streets and you'll only see a few other people, if any, walking there, too. If you need directions, try asking for help in English; most Norwegians speak some English and many speak it quite well.
Stop in one of the small, local restaurants like highly rated Grådi in the Tøyen neighborhood, not far from Sentrum (the center of Oslo), where you’ll find a selection of satisfying Norwegian comfort food. While in Oslo, if you can, make it your mission to find a place serving über-fresh Norwegian salmon, which is traditionally poached in a big pot of salty water that flavors the fish. And stop at a green market to buy some Nordic berries, all kinds of berries, like cloudberries and gooseberries, that we rarely, if ever, see in the United States. Keep in mind that this is a global city with eclectic food as well from Syria, Vietnam, the American South, and other far-flung locales, so there is plenty of culinary variety.
Oslo is endowed with ​incredible natural riches. Not far from the city center, there are many, many parks where you’ll find rivers, forests, lakes, and the Oslofjord with islands and beaches. On one of the cherished sunny days here, you’ll see Oslo residents out drinking in the rays at the parks and even on sidewalk benches.
There are, in fact, a great many nature lovers in Oslo—and Norway, for that matter—whose idea of a good time is to pull on their hiking boots and head to the mountains for a two-week walk among the glaciers, which are capped in the last of the summer's snow and ice. At night, hikers generally camp out or stay in one of the country’s convenient mountain cabins with affordable accommodation and big, communal tables where hikers chow down on wholesome, filling food after a day on the trails. For hikers, these walks are an opportunity to stay fit, be in nature and sun, enjoy themselves with a community of other hikers, and just relax. A word to the wise: If you decide to go hiking in the mountains, bring sunscreen. The mountains are generally closer to the sun than the cities, so you will need it.
If you have one day in Oslo, you can still see the top sights and attractions in Norway's capital. You'll just have to prioritize a little and select things that fit into one day. You could take a 7.5-hour guided tour of Oslo where you can visit the must-see sights by boat and bus, including Polarship Farm, Holmenkollen Ski Jump, Vigeland Park, the Viking ships, the Norwegian Folk Museum, and you'll even be able to fit in the seafood buffet that the tour company organizes. Alternative options include visiting Oslo's green parks and gardens to experience their natural beauty or shopping in Oslo for Norwegian sweaters or fashion apparel.
With three days in Oslo, you'll have more flexibility. For this length of time, a great option is to visit the city of Bergen, Norway's charming second-largest city on the west coast, for a couple of days. It is known as the gateway to the fjords, so there is an abundance of natural beauty. Bergen is almost a seven-hour drive, but the trip is well worth it. In Bergen, visit fisketorget, the city's historic fish market, which has been in operation for centuries, as well as Bergen's picturesque wharf and cultural attractions. You could also drive a couple of hours north from Bergen one evening and experience the Northern Lights (Aurora Borealis). This spectacular fluorescent light show is caused by electrons streaming in toward the Earth along its magnetic field and colliding with air particles. After you've seen Bergen, it's back to Oslo, where you'll have a day to hit the highlights; one of those 7.5-hour guided tours could be a big help in this department.
Here are two great options for spending seven days in the Oslo area.

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Best Overall: Hotel Continental — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"A stone’s throw from the Royal Palace, five-star Hotel Continental is ranked on TripAdvisor as the best hotel in Oslo."
Best Budget: Comfort Hotel Karl Johan — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Gives budget travelers the opportunity to experience life in the heart of the action."
Best Boutique: Saga Hotel Oslo — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Carefully reinvented as a temple to contemporary style."
Best for Families: Scandic St. Olavs Plass — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"An excellent mid-range option for those traveling with young kids."
Best for Romance: Oslo Guldsmeden — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"The ideal choice for a romantic getaway."
Best Luxury: The Thief — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"This is the choice for design-conscious travelers"
Best for Nightlife: Grand Hotel Oslo — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Five-star Grand Hotel Oslo lets you explore a broad spectrum of nightlife options."
Best Business: Thon Hotel Opera — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Especially convenient for visiting business travelers."
Best Views: Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"All rooms offer downtown views."
Courtesy of Hotel Continental Oslo 
Located opposite the National Theater and a stone’s throw from the Royal Palace, five-star Hotel Continental is ranked on TripAdvisor as the best hotel in Oslo. It is also the only Leading Hotel of the World in Norway. Much of its charm comes from the fact that it has been owned and run by the same family for four generations. Opened in 1900, its interiors treat you to a luxury blend of the classic and contemporary, while the walls are adorned with hand-picked artworks. There are 155 guestrooms and suites, all with a bathtub, a balcony, an LCD TV and free Wi-Fi.
The hotel’s Les Clefs d’Or concierge provides exemplary service, giving you insider information about which restaurants, museums and theaters to visit. When hunger strikes, choose from five restaurants and bars, including Oslo landmark Theatercaféen. Since the hotel’s opening, this breathtaking Art Nouveau restaurant has dazzled patrons with its seasonal European fare. Lobby bar Dagligstuen is known for its cocktails and its Edvard Munch print collection.
Mahlum / Wikimedia Commons / Public Domain
Situated near Oslo Cathedral on the city’s main thoroughfare, Comfort Hotel Karl Johan gives budget travelers the opportunity to experience life in the heart of the action. Opened in 2016, the hotel is bright, modern and affordable. There are 181 unique rooms, the cheapest being the Moderate Double. Although small, you’ve got all the amenities you need, including an ensuite bathroom, a flat-screen TV and free Wi-Fi. On Sundays, enjoy late check-out until 6 p.m. at no extra cost.
Breakfast is included, giving you even more value for money. Fill up on organic, sustainable produce before heading out to explore the city. There’s a cozy lobby lounge for relaxed afternoons at the hotel, as well as a complimentary downstairs gym. A 24-hour shop sells essentials, including tasty snacks. If you’d rather sit down for a proper meal, head to Rodins Bar & Bistro. Blessed with outdoor terraces for al fresco meals in summer, the restaurant specializes in French cuisine. 
Courtesy of Saga Hotel Oslo 
Four-star boutique Saga Hotel Oslo offers a quiet location on a leafy residential street near the Royal Palace. Step through the original 1890s façade into an elegant interior that has been carefully reinvented as a temple to contemporary style. With just 47 rooms and suites, the hotel offers guests a refreshing sense of intimacy. Decorated in complementary shades of gray, white and gold, each room includes a 40” TV, a Nespresso coffee machine and a minibar.
Upgrade to a higher category for extra space or ask for a room with a private balcony. Communal areas include a simple breakfast room and an atmospheric lobby bar (perfect for daytime coffees and evening apéritifs). However, the star of the show is downstairs sushi bar, Restaurant Fangst. Here, you can sample the freshest Norwegian seafood prepared in fine Japanese style. Other hotel perks include complimentary access to a local gym.
 Courtesy of Scandic St Olavs Plass
An excellent mid-range option for those traveling with young kids, Scandic St. Olavs Plass puts your family within easy walking distance of major attractions such as Palace Park and the National Gallery. All children receive a welcome gift, while during peak holiday times there’s a mobile play module with toys and a PlayStation. Choose the Family Room for a pull-out sofabed, free Wi-Fi and a TV with children’s channels.
Connecting rooms accommodate larger families, while Teenage Rooms are charged at discounted rates depending on availability. Worried about the expense of a Norwegian vacation? Children under 13 stay for free at this hotel. Breakfast is included, too, and the restaurant offers a dedicated kids menu designed to suit younger tastes. When you need a quiet adult moment, head to the bar and lounge, or to the on-site gym.
Courtesy of Guldsmeden Hotels 
Eco-friendly boutique Oslo Guldsmeden is a short stroll from waterfront Aker Brygge - the best date night destination in Oslo. Small and rustic, it’s the ideal choice for a romantic getaway. All 50 rooms create an atmosphere of intimacy with a four-poster bed, soft lighting and warm wooden floors. For special occasions, splash out on the Bridal Suite (with a copper bathtub and private sauna, it’s worth it).
An organic breakfast is included in your room rate, while the lobby lounge enchants with driftwood sculptures and colorful rugs. Curl up in front of the fireplace for a cozy afternoon spent reading together, then return for small plates and drinks after dark. Another romantic hotel highlight is the Turkish hammam, complete with a choice of saunas and a serene relaxation room. 
 Courtesy of The Thief
Five-star hotel The Thief takes its name from the luxury development on which it sits - Tjuvholmen, or Thieves Island. This is the choice for design-conscious travelers, seducing with a bold, ultra-modern color scheme, luxe gold accents and an impressive art collection. All rooms spoil with floor-to-ceiling windows, a private balcony and a state-of-the-art sound system, but The Oslo Suite is the most decadent.
From this penthouse apartment, expect original Peter Blake artworks and a private roof terrace with breathtaking fjord views. The same views can be appreciated from Thief Roof and Thief Roof Foodbar in the summer. Together, these outdoor options treat you to signature cocktails and sumptuous seafood. There are two indoor restaurants, while the spa offers treatments from Turkey, Morocco and Germany. 
Courtesy of Grand Hotel Oslo
Surrounded by city center theaters, restaurants and bars, five-star Grand Hotel Oslo lets you explore a broad spectrum of nightlife options. This historic hotel is also home to Othilia Lobby Bar, a newly renovated space serving sophisticated drinks. The party continues with craft cocktails and stunning city views at Eight Rooftop Bar. From the standard Grand Petite Rooms to the impressive Grand Suites, all rooms offer free Wi-Fi, a minibar and a deluxe bed. After a late night, restore your equilibrium with a fitness center workout or with a dip in the indoor pool. The spa tempts with a full menu of treatments and massages; while Palmen restaurant serves fine Nordic cuisine ahead of the next night’s festivities.
Courtesy of Thon Hotel Opera
Located a three-minute walk from the airport train terminal at Oslo Central Station, Thon Hotel Opera is especially convenient for visiting business travelers. It has 18 meeting rooms - the largest of which can accommodate up to 220 delegates. Business Rooms include free Wi-Fi and a generous work desk, as well as amenities designed to help you unwind after a busy day (like a TV, a minibar and bathtub). This category includes breakfast, while Scala Restaurant promises all-day dining with a view of the Oslo Opera House. You can also work out in the fitness room or network with co-workers in the bar. Your choice.
Courtesy of Radisson Blu
On the other side of Oslo Central Station, Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel is a glass tower with 37 stories. As well as upscale amenities such as a minibar and free Wi-Fi, all rooms offer downtown views. For the most impressive panoramas of Oslo landmarks and the fjords beyond, book an upper-level Business or Signature Suite. Alternatively, 34 Restaurant and 34 Skybar boast the same dizzying vantage point (with the added benefit of traditional Norwegian cuisine and specialty cocktails, respectively). Need some inspiration to stay in shape? The health club complements its gym and swimming pool with mesmerizing 37th-floor views.
Although Oslo, Norway might not be the first place couples in love consider visiting on a honeymoon or romantic vacation, a trip to the oldest and sunniest Scandinavian capital shouldn't be overlooked. 
For couples who love the outdoors, breathtaking scenery, eating the freshest fish and participating in sports of all kinds, Oslo is a magnificent gateway to the rest of Norway. And if you love city life, culture, history, museums, restaurants, and people watching, plan to spend at least a few days at the beginning of your Norway journey in Oslo. 
Your visit can begin with a flight from the nearest Norwegian Air gateway to Oslo. And you'll be impressed by the efficient Flytoget express train that can transport you directly from the airport to Oslo's Central Station.
Now discover the unique charms Oslo holds for couples on the following slides. With an Oslo Pass, you can get discounted admission to many of them plus the hop-on-hop-off bus, boat sightseeing, free entry to swimming pools, free guided walks, and unlimited free travel by bus, tram, underground, boat and local train within the city.
Susan Breslow Sardone
Until you get your bearings, following the Stranden is a good way to acclimate yourself to the city. The social hub of Oslo, the Stranden is a prime place for dining and people-watching with a water view. 
In summer, couples eat at open-air restaurants or queue up for waffles or ice cream at freestanding vendors along the waterfront promenade. There's plenty of seating along wooden steps to observe the active harbor, where you can see everything from swimmers to kayakers, to sail and motor boats, to cruise ships that hold thousands of passengers. 
The Stranden leads to the City Hall and ferry terminal across from it. There you can take a sightseeing tour by boat, sail to Museum Island, or opt for a dinner cruise.
Wondering where the shopping is in Oslo? It's clustered on a street parallel to and behind the Stranden; the best-known store is H&M. Find even more retail in the area around Karl Johans Gate and in the Oslo City Shopping Center.
The magnum opus of sculptor Gustav Vigeland (1869-1943) is the world's largest sculpture park. This outdoor museum contains more than 200 works that took Vigeland some 40 years to create.
Influenced by August Rodin, Vigeland conceived the sculpture park to express the theme of "circle of life" from birth to death and rebirth. All statues are unnamed and nude, from the small granite babies to the young men and women, singly and in couples, to the stooped elderly. 
The centerpiece of Vigeland Park Museum is the 56-foot tall Monolith, a totem that incorporates 121 figures carved from a solid piece of granite. To reach it, visitors walk along well-manicured, tree-shaded grounds.
In summer, rose bushes in a riot of colors enhance a romantic stroll to appreciate the art and consider your own place in the circle of life. 
Opened in 2010 and the world's only steel slope, the Holmenkollen Ski Jump quickly became the #1 tourist attraction in Oslo, even when there's not a snowflake to be found.
Thanks to the Holmenkollen zipline, visitors can follow the same route as ski jumpers and whiz down the nearly 1,200 feet from the top of the slope to the bottom of the hill. Those who don't have their eyes squeezed shut can take in a bird's eye view of Oslo, "blue and green and city in between."
Could you take an even more courageous leap and get married at the very top of the Holmenkollen Ski Jump? With enough kroners, it is possible.
Also on site: a Ski Museum that references 4,000 years of the sport, the polar expeditions of Roald Amundsen and other explorers, different kinds of cold-weather equipment, and dioramas including one with a life-size polar bear. 
Warm up or cool down at the café at the base of the jump. And if you'd like to stay longer, the adjacent Hotel Holmenkollen Park, a former sanitarium originally built in the timber "dragon style" of architecture in 1894, will help you feel fine in no time. It also has several dining rooms appropriate for wedding celebrations. 
Susan Breslow Sardone
Several of Oslo's most popular museums are located on a hilly island reachable by both ferry and car via a bridge from the mainland. 
The attractions include:
There's also a beach, bike paths, art exhibits, restaurants, and splendid views of the center of Oslo.
Susan Breslow Sardone
Dating back to the early 14th century, Akershus Fortress held off every siege launched at it and protected this part of the Viking homeland for centuries. In time it also served as a naval fortress and prison. 
Open to the public now and offering guided tours, Akershus Fortress is home to the Akershus Castle church, the Royal Mausoleum, castle banquet halls, and the Armed Forces Museum and Norway's Resistance Museum.
The collection of the Resistance Museum is dedicated to the movement that rebelled against the country's five-year Nazi occupation. In the fall of 1945, traitor Vidkun Quisling was executed by firing squad on adjacent grounds.  
Susan Breslow Sardone
Edvard Munch (1863—1944), Norway's best-known artist, is represented in two Oslo museums. 
The eponymous Edvard Munch Museum contains more than half of the lugubrious painter's canvases and most of his prints. It has one painted version of The Scream and one pastel iteration. And if you feel like lunch at Munch, the museum café offers coffee and light fare.
The modern expressionist is also represented in Oslo's National Gallery, which holds two versions of The Scream and several other works by the artist as well as Norway's largest public collection of paintings, drawings and sculptures. 
Susan Breslow Sardone
City Hall is an easily recognized, twin-towered brick building across from the Stranden. It's in here that the Nobel Peace Prize is awarded (the other Nobel prizes are bestowed in Stockholm).
Don't miss the priceless, life-size woodcuts on the building's exterior inspired by ancient sagas. If you have time, go inside City Hall: the wall murals would be worth the price of admission, if admission were charged (it's not). Covering portions of all four walls, they colorfully and expressively relate the history of Norway and its people. 
Susan Breslow Sardone
You don't have to be opera lovers to be moved by the appearance of the Norwegian National Opera & Ballet building.  Designed by the Snohetta firm with distinctive glass walls, a roof that's a platform visitors can walk upon, and dramatic angles that appear to descend into the sea, the Opera House opened in 2008. 
Fifty-minute guided tours lead visitors backstage and reveal more about the architecture and the artworks that make this structure both literally and figuratively outstanding.
Susan Breslow Sardone
Seafood has long been a staple at the Norwegian table, and the chefs at Tjuvholmen Sjomagasin restaurant raise the preparation and cooking of it to art. 
Set along the water's edge on Tjuvholmen Island, the high-ceilinged, glass-walled restaurant is also transparent inside, with an open kitchen. There chefs artfully and painstakingly combine fresh ingredients with fish and shellfish selected at their peak of flavor. The menu is small, so before you go, make sure everything appeals.
In summer our meal began with a foamy amuse bouche with slivers of octopus. It was followed with a lightly cured salmon and king crab appetizer enhanced with scallions and horseradish.
The entree was a perfectly cooked piece of halibut on a bed of risotto with asparagus. Dessert was the only disappointment: Juicy summer strawberries and rhubarb were buried under a blob of bland vanilla ice cream decorated with broken meringue crackers. We'd have been happier with an unpretentious dish of strawberries and cream.
Susan Breslow Sardone
Oslo's coolest and most contemporary hotel, The Thief recently added a day spa to its property on Tjuvholmen Island, a short walk from the Stranden.
Whether you want to swim indoors in the dead of winter, steam in fall, beautify before a wedding or after a day at the beach, have a facial, massage or couples treatment, you can do it here. And the facility boasts Oslo's first hammam.
Yet if you simply want to see and savor Oslo, breathe in the fresh air, have your spirit elevated by the beauty of the scenery, and bring a healthy glow to your skin, simply go outside and take a brisk walk. There's much to discover and appreciate here.
In Norway, from Oslo to Trondheim is about 500 kilometers (310 miles). There are several transportation options: air, train, car, bus or even ship. Each transportation mode has pros and cons, though, so take a look and pick the one that's best for you to get from Oslo in the south to Trondheim in the north, or vice versa.
Starting at around $175 round-trip, this isn't the cheapest option to get from Oslo to Trondheim, but with a 60-minute duration, it's definitely the fastest. Note that it's cheaper to fly from Moss Airport or Sandefjord Airport outside Oslo, instead of using Oslo Gardermoen Airport. SAS, Widerøe Airlines, and Norwegian Air have many direct flights between Oslo and Trondheim daily.
It's a scenic seven-hour journey if you take the train from Oslo to Trondheim, or from Trondheim back down to Oslo. The train ticket just about equals the flight price, from approximately $150 for date-flexible, round-trip tickets. There are three to four train connections daily, and you can buy train tickets online. It may be a little slower, but this is definitely one of the more relaxing ways to spend your travel time between these two destinations.
If you're renting a car while in Norway, you can just drive from Oslo and Trondheim. The trip is quite doable and doesn't require a whole lot of directions (or even GPS). Between Trondheim and Oslo, it's about a 6.5-hour trip (500 kilometers/300 miles) by car. There are two options for the drive, as follows:
You can take E6 all the way, going through Ringsaker and Folldal. Make sure to check traffic if you end up using this route in or out of the city in the morning or late afternoon in order to avoid rush-hour traffic.
The shorter route, which is Rv3 through Elverum and Alvdal, saves about 30 minutes of drive time but can get you stuck behind slower vehicles on the country roads. When leaving the city area of either Oslo or Trondheim on E6, simply look for Rv3 for the shortcut. It is definitely a little more scenic than E6, but your overall speed won't be as fast.
Traveling by bus is a cheap option, and with a travel time of around eight hours, it doesn't take much longer than driving yourself. The NOR-WAY Bussekspress bus #135 (known as the Østerdal Express) leaves from Oslo Gardermoen Airport. Each way there are two bus connections daily, one in the morning and one at night. For this mode of transportation, which is by far the cheapest, one-way tickets cost around $25.
If you have more than four days to journey from Oslo to Trondheim and want to go the most scenic way, try the Hurtigruten & Norway in a Nutshell tour. Don't forget your camera, especially in early and mid-summer. You'll be traveling by boat and train between the cities of Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, and Hurtigruten. Disadvantage: The high price of about $550 a person (and higher depending on room choice) and the possibility of the weather in Norway not cooperating. Also, if you get seasick easily, this might not be the best option for you.
So what are the best-guided tours in Oslo, Norway? My favorite tours are shown in this travel article. So, relax and take a look at these great Oslo tours, get tour information and departure times, and then reserve yourself a seat on the guided tour that fits you best...
This is the grandfather of all guided tours in Oslo, Norway - an interesting 7.5 hour tour by boat and bus that took us all around Oslo. Tour times are 10:30 am - 6:00 pm. For lunch, there is a seafood buffet included, which we really liked. Bring your camera to take pictures of the tour stops Polarship Farm, Holmenkollen Ski Jump, Vigeland Park, the Viking ships, and the Norwegian Folk Museum. This guided tour operates May - September and is great if you have a day to spare for Oslo's big sights.
Part bus, part boat tour of Oslo. This guided Oslo tour consists of an interesting bus tour in and around the center of Oslo, and visitors will see the Holmenkollen Ski Jump, the Viking ships, and Kon-Tiki Raft. You will also be able to visit the Norwegian Folk Museum and Vigeland Park as part of the tour. And then, there's a sightseeing cruise - a very nice boat tour around Oslo. This seasonal guided tour departs daily May - August. Approx. 5 hours.
This guided tour of Oslo shows visitors every major attraction and makes for comfortable sightseeing in one afternoon. The tour takes visitors to the center of Oslo, the Vigeland Sculpture Park and the Holmenkollen Ski Jump, as well as the ski museum and the Viking ships! Departs twice daily May through September, about 3.5 hours in length.
This guided tour is as unique as Oslo is. Actually, it's more like a 24-hour ticket for an open-top double-decker bus for Oslo visitors. The double-decker bus stops at all the main sights of Oslo, Norway, and you can get on and off when and where you like. Listen to interesting commentary and enjoy the view from the top of the bus. Departs every 30 minutes from each stop and operates May - September. The tickets are valid for at least 24 hours.
A guided tour by boat? Here it is. Feel like a real Viking on the tour operator's wooden sailing ship and, once on board, enjoy a fresh dinner buffet of Norwegian prawns and local breads while seeing Oslo and its green islands. This 3-hour tour is seasonal and operates daily from May to September. Discounts offered for children up to 16 years. I highly recommended this experience.
Held in Norway's largest city and drawing thousands of supporters each year, Oslo Gay Pride takes place over about 10 days in June, culminating with the final day's events, which include the Oslo Pride Parade and Oslo Pride Closing Party. This year's Oslo Pride runs from June 17 through June 26, with June 25, 2016 the date of the big parade.
Oslo Pride commences on Friday, June 17, with a big Opening Party at Elsker bar. At the English-language section on the official website, you'll find details about all events, and these are updated regularly by the Pride organizers. Part of this event in Oslo revolves around a series of debates, workshops, and discussions, and these take place at Pride House, to which admission is free. Pride House is open from June 18 through June 24.
Running from June 19 through the very last day of Oslo Pride (Sunday, June 26), there's a Queer Art Exhibit at Handverkeren (Rosenkratz Gate 7).
As the week continues, the bigger events happen, starting with the opening on Wednesday, June 22, of Pride Park, through which more than 60,000 people will pass over the course of Oslo Pride. Running Wednesday through Saturday, during the afternoons and evenings (see the official site for exact hours), Pride Park hosts a series of music performances, DJ dance events, and parties. Admission is free, and the park is located at the Spikersuppa pool at Eidsvolls Plass (Eidsvoll Square), right in the heart of the city - near the Royal Palace and Norwegian Parliament. One concert this year at Pride Park is Friday night's performance by Swedish rapper Silvana Imam.
On Saturday, June 25, the Oslo Gay Pride Parade takes place at 1 pm, starting off at Gronland and wending its way through the city's streets. Pride culminates later that same day with the Oslo Pride Closing Party, during which some 2,000 celebrants will pack into Rockefeller Music Hall. 
With about 650,000 residents, Oslo is Norway's largest city and it's also the nation's political, cultural, transportation, and arts hub. It's also one of the fastest-growing cities in Europe (its extended metro population exceeds 1.7 million), and the gay community here has also grown dramatically in the past decade - it's also more visible than its ever been, although LGBT life in Oslo is relatively low-keyed and easy-going, and also quite integrated within other realms of the city. 
Planning to visit Oslo by train? Here's how to do so using a Eurail Pass.
Oslo Gay Resources
You can find quite a lot out about the gay scene in Oslo by checking out the Nighttours.com Oslo Gay Guide. Additionally, About.com's own Scandinavia Travel site has a terrific Best Gay Bars in Oslo article that offers plenty of great suggestions on where to go out and have fun in the capital city - as you might guess, many of these venues will be jam-packed with revelers the during Oslo Pride.
Norway's tourism organization, Visit Norway, produces a very useful online Norway LGBT Travel section that's filled with advice and tips on visiting this extremely gay-welcoming nation. Additionally, the official tourism organization for the region, Visit Oslo, produces this excellent primer for LGBT visitors to the city, complete with recommendations on nightlife, and event calendar, and other advice for gay visitors.

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

It’s no secret that Norway is an expensive place—and in the Scandinavian nation’s capital of Oslo, prices can give the wallet even more of a shock.
Thankfully, lodging is one area where you don't need to break the bank. The city offers plenty of budget options—and no, they’re not all hostels. Whether you're backpacking through Europe or on a business trip or family vacation, there's an option for you. Here, we've rounded up eight of the best picks, from a hotel where you can catch see the Northern Lights through the windows to one with bunk beds perfect for small children.
Courtesy of Citybox Oslo
Citybox’s business plan is all about the basics—in the best way. With no in-room TVs, minibars, bellboys, or daily housekeeping, the hotel can keep its running costs low and save you money; rooms often go for less than $100 per night. But rest assured that the hotel doesn't skimp on quality: each streamlined room is equipped with a comfortable bed, a bath, a desk, a chair, and a place to hang your clothes.
Families will love that there are also rooms with bunk beds, and you can request an extra child’s bed before your arrival if needed. Free Wi-Fi is available throughout the property, so you can kick back with your favorite Netflix show after a long day of sightseeing. Breakfast is offered for purchase at Rent Mel, an eatery adjacent to the hotel’s entrance.
Also, If your travels in Norway take you beyond Oslo to the charming harbor town of Bergen, Citybox has another location there.
Courtesy of Comfort Hotel Xpress Youngstorget 
It's hard to beat the location of the Comfort Hotel Xpress Youngstoget. It's right in Oslo's city center for easy access to sightseeing destinations and nightlife, as well the city's main train station, which is great if you want to take a day trip. The property's 175 rooms are clean and well-decorated with stylish furniture. Each has Wi-Fi and a high-definition TV. Although housekeeping comes every four days to keep costs down, you can request an in-between cleaning for a small fee. There’s also a gym on-site—a nice perk for a budget price—as well as a roof terrace. Check-in and -out are both self-service, and the whole hotel is cash-free, so as long as you have a credit or debit card, you’ll be set.
Courtesy of Saga Hotel Oslo Central
This hotel, one of four Saga Hotels properties in Oslo, is a great spot for families. Located in the city center, there’s no need to take little ones on public transit to see everything on your list. Picky teenagers will also love its contemporary design, with exposed brick walls and modern art in the common areas. The hotel also offers special family room configurations that sleep up to four, with twin-size bunk beds adjacent to a double bed (made up of two twin-sized beds pushed together). Although the property is fairly no-frills, Wi-Fi is available throughout the space so everyone can catch up on Facebook and Instagram heading out for a day of sightseeing, shopping, or eating.
Courtesy of Comfort Hotel RunWay
If you have a late-night arrival or super-early departure from Oslo’s airport, you’re going to want to crash in an airport hotel instead of heading all the way into the city. The Comfort Hotel Runway, from Nordic Choice Hotels, is a perfect option: it's located right next to the airport with a shuttle bus that leaves every 15 minutes for the 10-minute drive. The hotel's 303 rooms have excellent Duxiana beds and each is outfitted with noise-reducing windows to ensure a good night's sleep. Breakfast is also geared toward those with those early morning flights, beginning at 4 a.m. every day. There’s also an on-site gym and restaurant, so you can grab dinner if you arrive in the evening. Just note that the hotel is cash-free, so be sure to have your card on hand.
Courtesy of Thon Hotel Astoria
This budget hotel is located just off of Oslo’s main shopping street and close to the train station. Although that might not immediately spur visions of idyllic scenes from the windows of your room, all you need to do is look up for the good stuff. If you time it right—and pay a bit more—you can get a room that overlooks Oslo’s bay and catch the spectacular Northern Lights from your windows. The hotel's rooms are clean and have super-comfortable beds, as well as free tea, coffee, and Wi-Fi. Rooms are a little on the small side, but if you’re just coming back to sleep at the end of the day, they'll work just fine. Plus, breakfast is included, so fill up before you start the day’s adventures and save a little extra cash.
Courtesy of Saga Poshtel Oslo Central
You’d be forgiven for thinking you’d stumbled upon a nice hotel when you walk in this hostel’s doors—and, in a way, you have. This property—which is located on the same premises as its sister hotel, the Saga Hotel Oslo Central—offers great design and a higher-quality experience than you'd normally find in a hostel. The rooms are clean, with private showers and toilets, and each sleeps no more than 12 people. Plus, if you’re traveling in smaller groups or with a friend, there are rooms with one, two, three, and four bunk beds you can rent privately. (Some have shared bathrooms, however, so just check that before you book.)
Like its sister hotel, the Saga Poshtel is close to many sightseeing destinations, but should you need to venture further, trams, busses, and the central train station are right nearby.
Courtesy of Park Inn by Radisson Oslo 
The Park Inn by Radisson Oslo is a great pick for business travelers. Located in the heart of the city, it’s close to the central train station. Each of its 118 clean, modern rooms has enough space to spread out—a plus in Oslo, where many hotel rooms are small. All rooms also come with free Apple TV, free Wi-Fi, and several USB ports to charge your devices. For the quietest stay, we suggest booking a non-connecting room on the top floor. Breakfast is served daily—book ahead for the best price—and six meeting rooms make the property even more business-friendly. This hotel also partnered with security consultants Safehotels Alliance to ensure its team is as prepared as possible for any emergency.
Interested in reading more reviews? Check out our list of the best travel adapters.
Courtesy of Smarthotel Oslo
The compact size of the rooms at the Smarthotel Oslo makes it a great spot for short stays. But don't worry—each has more than enough amenities, including a shower, a DUX bed, a flat-screen TV, a work desk, and an allergy-friendly carpet. To cut down on costs, housekeeping only comes on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. If you want to take a day trip during your stay, you can rent one of the hotel's electric smart cars for a reasonable price. Guests can also rent bikes for free. Best of all, if your flight gets in at an odd time, 24-hour check-in is available—and, if you want to stow your suitcase post-checkout, you can do so in a locked luggage room. Like a few other hotels on this list, payment at this hotel is by card only.
There are several types of transportation you can use to travel between Stockholm, Sweden, and Oslo, Norway. Each transportation option has pros and cons. Here is a closer look to help you figure out which way of getting from Stockholm to Oslo fits you best, depending on your budget, your timeline and how much sightseeing you want to do. Some options are also better for families with children. 
In Norway, Oslo—the country's capital—and Stavanger aren't even 200 aerial miles apart, but getting from one city to another by land takes far longer than expected. Traveling between Oslo and Stavanger isn't exactly a straight shot. There are four different travel options with pros and cons to consider.
This is definitely the fastest option. You can hop from Oslo to Stavanger or from Stavanger back to Oslo with a direct, 50-minute flight. Airlines covering the popular Oslo-Stavanger route are typically Norwegian, SAS, and Wideroe with regular flights. When booked in advance, a one-way isn't extremely pricey, and Norwegian Air is typically the cheapest option. Pros and cons? It's quick and painless, but also one of the more expensive options.
If you want to relax and have a nice view along Norway's southern coast, use the train from Oslo to Stavanger. The bad news is that the train from Oslo to Stavanger takes about eight hours. But if you have the time for a scenic trip and buy Minipris tickets (Norwegian) in advance, the one-way ticket should be cheaper than airfare. You can make train reservations in advance for this and other Norwegian routes with Rail Europe.
Driving is the option for flexibility. If you're renting a car in Oslo (or in Stavanger) and want to drive the 300 miles (500 kilometers) to the other city, know that there are two options that include toll roads and a longer one that doesn't. Either way, the entire drive will take up a whole day, so expect to be on the road for a while. You may also want to consider the time of year for safe driving. In the winter, for example, road conditions can be poor thanks to snow and ice.
Nor-Way Bussekspress and Lavprisekspressen operate buses between Oslo and Stavanger. It's a long, 10-hour trip. The bus between Oslo and Stavanger costs about the same as the train, which is faster, more punctual, and more comfortable. So while you can take the bus, it's not the optimal choice.
