Oxford University is the oldest university in the English speaking world, dating back to the 11th century. This guided walk introduced you the city and the university.
Walk these streets and you will be following in the footsteps of Nobel prize winners, kings, presidents, and prime ministers. The university has produced saints, scientists, explorers, artists, authors and actors. Sir Tim Berners Lee, inventor of the world wide web (which makes reading this tour possible!), graduated from Queens College, Oxford.
This walk will take you around some of Oxford's oldest colleges and most important university buildings. It is planned for a morning to give you plenty of time to explore. Don't start too early -- some of the colleges aren't open to the public until noon or later. The first leg, is an easy, 10 minute stroll.
Worcester College was founded in 1714 on the remains of a medieval institution, Gloucester College. The tiny cottages on the south side of the quad are the surviving parts of it. Today they are student rooms, equipped with what the English call "all mod cons", even high speed Internet connections. The Neoclassical buildings on the north side (top photo, above) date from the 18th century. The library was designed by Nicholas Hawksmoor.
Once on the edge of town, Worcester College has extensive grounds, rolling down to the Oxford Canal, with sports fields and lovely gardens.
But the colleges are more than student residences. Teachers associated with the colleges supervise each student's studies and provide personal guidance through regular "tutorials". The tutorial system is the backbone of an undergraduate education at Oxford and, in fact, Oxford students are not required to attend lectures at all.
The museum may be old but its world famous collection is anything but dusty and boring. It spans ten millennia and covers art and artifacts of eastern and western civilizations.
The Ashmolean is always free and time spent here is bound to be rewarding. Among the treasures:
Give yourself plenty of time at the Ashmolean before moving on.
It's a 5 minute walk. Arrive no earlier than noon.
Because the exact origins of some of Oxford's colleges are lost in the confusion of the University's long history, at least three colleges can lay claim to being Oxford's oldest. Balliol is one of these, dating its foundation to about 1263 when John Balliol, a wealthy Englishman, and father to the Scots King of the same name, set up a house in the Oxford suburbs to maintain poor students. His widow, a Scottish princess named Dervorguilla set up the college on a more permanent basis in 1269.
Among Balliol's many distinguished graduates, was the modern martyr, Adam von Trott, who was executed for his part in the plot to kill Hitler in 1944.
Balliol's grounds open to the public at 1p.m. but if you arrive before then, you have three options:
Turn left from out of Balliol's gate and continue past Trinity College gates to Blackwell's, a famous Oxford bookstore. Cross Broad Street. The curved building across the street is the Sheldonian Theatre.
The Sheldonian Theatre, built between 1664 and 1668, was Christopher Wren's first design and one of Oxford's most architecturally important buildings. It isn't actually a theatre at all. Its original purpose was as a secular venue for University ceremonies, such as graduations and matriculations. It is still used for that purpose but is also used for concerts of serious music.
The façade of the Sheldonian that faces Broad Street and fascinates most visitors is actually the back of the building. It was designed to face a courtyard with more important University buildings including the Bodleian Library and the chapel of Exeter College. The twelve grotesque stone heads on pillars (see insets above) are sometimes identified as the Twelve Caesars or the Twelve Apostles, but they are simply decorative. They were replaced in the 1970s after pollution destroyed the originals. When not in use for University functions, or concerts, the Sheldonian is open to the public Monday to Saturday from 10a.m. to 12:30p.m. and 2p.m. to 4:30p.m. (3:30p.m. closing, November to February). Admission is £2.50 (£1.50 for concessions).
After visiting the Sheldonian Theatre:
To enter Radcliffe Square, unmistakeable because of the completely round Radcliffe Camera in the centre, you must first pass the Old Bodleian Library.
The Bodleian is actually made up of several libraries and reading rooms, including the English Gothic Hall of the Divinity School, built in 1488 and the oldest teaching room at the University.
Because the Bodleian is a scholarly working library, its reading rooms are only open to the public during specific, timed and guided tours. To find out more about touring the reading rooms email the library shop. Find out more about visiting hours and admission fees on the official website.
Even if you don't go insider, spend a few minutes admiring the building in Radcliffe Square.
The word "camera" means room in Latin and the distinctive dome and drum shape of the Radcliffe Camera holds the main reading room of the Bodleian Library. This is one of the most famous buildings in Oxford. It was built in the mid-18th century by architect James Gibbs. Enjoy the outside of the building because it can only be visited by authorised scholars using its facilities.
The Radcliffe Camera, at the center of Radcliffe Square, is surrounded by impressive University and college buildings.
Turl Street, lined with colorful shops, is one of Oxford center's original medieval streets. The early 18th century All Saints Church, at the end of Turl Street, where it meets Oxford's High Street, is now Lincoln College Library.
Turl Street was named for a twirling gate that used to exist in the city wall.
Have a look around this original lane, then cross it into Market Street. Jesus College is on the right and, midway between Turl Street and Cornmarket Street, you'll find the entrances to The Oxford Covered Market on the left.
If you haven't raced along, but have stopped to enjoy all the key points of this tour, it's probably time to stop for lunch or a drink. You will find a choice of restaurants and cafes inside Oxford's very colorful, Victorian Covered Market.
The market also has plenty of shops to satisfy that acquisitive urge most travelers get, sooner or later. You can buy flowers, clothing, loads of shoes, jewelry, cheeses and wines and all sorts of interesting things in this warren of shops.
Take a break for some retail therapy before tackling Oxford south of the High Street on another Oxford walk.
The historic Downtown Square in Oxford has always been at the center of city life. Visitors may enjoy browsing the unique shops, upscale boutiques and art galleries. Restaurants around the Square offer great dining options from casual to fine dining. This is where you will also find most of Oxford's nightlife and several annual festivals and special events.
Square Books, housed in three separate buildings, is one of the most renowned independent bookstores in the U.S. The main store, located at 160 Courthouse Square, features literary fiction, books about the South and by writers from the South, as well as an extensive inventory of remainder titles. There is also a cafe and a second-floor balcony. A few doors away, at 129 Courthouse Square, Off Square Books includes lifestyle selections and Square Books Jr, located at 111 Courthouse Square, is the children's bookstore.
Related: Oxford, Mississippi Travel Planning
Dedicated in 1997 to mark the 100th anniversary of William Faulkner's birthday, this bronze statue by William Beckwith is located at City Hall. It depicts William Faulkner holding a pipe and seated on a bench, looking out toward the Town Square.
Related: Oxford, Mississippi Travel Planning
Oxford, Mississippi Visitors and local residents alike enjoy many seasonal festivals and special events throughout the year. A few of the annual highlights include:
Related: Oxford, Mississippi Travel Planning
Rowan Oak, the former home of Nobel Prize winning author William Faulkner, is located on Old Taylor Road just to the south of the Town Square and near the Eastern edge of the University of Mississippi campus. The Greek Revival house was built by Robert Sheegog in 1848 and became home to Faulkner in 1930, where he resided until his death in 1962. Rowan Oak was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1968 and sold to the University of Mississippi in 1972. This is a favorite sightseeing stop for many Oxford, Mississippi visitors.
Related: Oxford, Mississippi Travel Planning
William Faulkner's Underwood Universal Portable typewriter is displayed on his simple writing table in his study at Rowan Oak.
William Faulkner's portable typewriter is on display at his former home, Rowan Oak.
Related: Oxford, Mississippi Travel Planning
Vaught–Hemingway Stadium at Hollingsworth Field is the home field for the University of Mississippi Rebels football team. During football game weekends, according to estimates, Oxford's population almost triples and most are heading for the stadium — a must for any visiting football fans.
Related: Oxford, Mississippi Travel Planning
Oxford, the county town of Oxfordshire, is the home of the oldest university in the English speaking world. The city was founded in the 11th century and the first mention of the university is about 100 years later - though the exact year is unknown. Touring the university, learning about its famous alumni and admiring the historic architecture of its 38 colleges is one reason visitors often include this popular city in their travel plans. But there is a great deal more to enjoy in this city, about 60 miles northwest of London.
Here are a dozen ideas to get you started.
 Taylor McIntyre / © TripSavvy
Oxford is a relatively small city and one of the best ways to see it is on foot, ducking in and out of back streets and lanes, exploring the grounds of the colleges that are open to the public and making your own discoveries. Pick up a leaflet at the train station or download an app: Oxford City Guides has some good, downloadable audio guides. Or just follow our two Oxford guided walks for morning and afternoon to get the lay of the land and decide what you'd like to revisit later. There is really a lot to discover and plenty of delightful surprises. And this being a University city, there are loads of coffee shops and pubs along the way to rest your tired tootsies.
flik47/Getty Images
When the Ashmolean Museum of Art and Archaeology was opened in 1683 the word "museum" wasn't even in use in English.
The Ashmolean Museum of Art and Archeology is the UK's oldest public museum. When it first opened, in 1683, the word "Museum" wasn't even used in English. A six-story extension, opened in 2009, turned the museum from a dark, shadowy series of Victorian galleries crammed with stuff to a light-filled, modern exhibition space; doubled its size, and at last made its fabulous collections accessible to everyone.
Those collections cover ten millennia of art and artifacts of eastern and western civilizations and include some unbelievable treasures, including:
And the best part is, its all free.
Andria Patino/Getty Images
When Albert Einstein gave his second Oxford lecture in 1931 he was already so internationally famous that the blackboard he used to illustrate his talk was never erased. Instead it was immediately brought to this museum where it has been preserved ever since.
If parsing Einstein's calculations, in his own hand, doesn't intrigue you, there's still a lot to do in this museum. It holds one of the world's finest collection of Medieval European and ancient Islamic scientific instruments — beautiful sundials and astrolabes. The 11th century Arabian astrolabe, pictured here, is an astronomical navigation tool, a precursor of the sextant.
The collection also includes Charles Dodgson's camera. The Oxford Mathematician, better known as Alice in Wonderland author Lewis Carroll, used the camera to take his famous series of pictures of Alice Liddell, who inspired his Alice books.
The museum is free though a donation is suggested.
If you are a keen museum goer, you won't be short on attractions in Oxford. Here are a few more to add to your list:
Librarian John Rouse (1574-1652) must have been quaking in his boots when he had to refuse King Charles I's demand that a book be removed from the Bodleian Library and delivered to him at his palace. The reason this historic library's collection has grown and grown is that it is forbidden by statute to remove any books. Instead, he brought a copy of the library's founding statutes. Charles the I was so impressed, he agreed that " that statutes of the pious founder be religiously observed".
The Bodleian is one of Europe's oldest libraries and second only to the British Library in the size and scope of its collection. It originated with a collection donated to the university in the 15th century by Duke Humfrey, the Duke of Gloucester and brother of King Henry V. Over the years it grew to encompass about 13 million books and related items in several buildings, including the famous Radcliffe Camera. The original Medieval rooms, including Duke Humfrey's Library, are still used by scholars and are open to the public on guided tours and some self-guided audio visits.
AndreA Chavez/Getty Images
Oxford's Botanic Garden, with 6,000 different kinds of plants, is a year round treat, both outdoors and inside seven display glass houses. There is always something to see and the garden's website points out what's in season and looking its best when you visit.
Within the glass houses, you can discover Alpine plants, lilies, cloud forest plants and carnivorous plants.
The garden's oldest section, the walled garden, dates from 1621 and holds collections of medicinal plants, geographically arranged borders and even a woodland walk. And while you are exploring the Lower Garden's many collections — including the Gin Border, with plants used in the production of gin, look for the corner bench that featured in Philip Pullman's "His Dark Materials" trilogy, it's where Will and Lyra could meet between their respective worlds.
And if 130 acres of specimen trees, North American conifers, livestock and landscaped estate — including some of the first redwood trees brought to Europe — intrigue you, hop on a bus (the X38 bus travels between the garden and the Arboretum every 20 minutes) and head for the Harcourt Arboretum about 5 miles away.
uschools/Getty Images
Almost all of Oxford University's colleges are open to the public at certain times of day or on special tours. Of you only have time to visit one, go for Christ Church, the biggest and, arguably, the most interesting for visitors. The foundation of the college is usually attributed to Henry VIII. Actually though, Henry stole the thunder of his ill-fated chancellor, Cardinal Thomas Wolsely.
Enter the college through the gates in the Tom Tower, the bell tower designed by Christopher Wren, leading into the Tom Quad. Old Tom, the bell in the tower, rings 101 times at 9:15 p.m. every night. It's a tradition dating from the school's foundation when it had 101 scholars. The gates were locked at 9:15 p.m. and the bell was rung to indicate that each of the students was safely inside.
Christ Church College's list of alumni and professors is very impressive, and includes 14 British prime ministers, dozens of artists, writers and musicians and a couple of Nobel Laureates. The picture gallery at Christ Church contains Old Master paintings by Tintoretto and Fra Lippo Lippi and drawings by Michelangelo, Leonardo Da Vinci and Albrecht Durer. Lewis Carroll, (real name Charles Dodgson) was a mathematics don at the college and his muse, 11-year-old Alice Liddell, who inspired Carroll's "Alice in Wonderland" and "Alice Through the Looking Glass," was the daughter of the dean of the college
But as impressive as all this is, it is probably not the reason that long lines of visitors queue up every day to buy tickets to enter and join tours. It's more likely that Harry Potter, is the reason visitors to Oxford flock to this college.
Halls, stairways and cloisters all stood in for Hogwarts, and Hogwarts' infirmary in the films. And the magical Great Hall, where so many scenes are set, is modeled on Christ Church's own Great Hall. Many people believe the scenes were filmed in this room but actually a replica was created in Warner Brothers' Leavesden Studios, outside London. You can visit that one as part of the Warner Brothers London Studios Tour; The Making of Harry Potter. Or peer into the real one, on a tour here.
Noppawat Tom Charoensinphon/Getty Images
Oxford Covered Market, in the center of town between the colleges and the main retail high street, is the perfect place to take a break, get a bite to eat and indulge in some artisan shopping. The market officially opened in 1774 after both local officials and University dons decided the traffic, smells and refuse of the market streets were becoming a public nuisance. It has been trading ever since. Today most of the stalls have become shops (more than 40 of them) selling clothing, leather goods, flowers and dried flowers, herbs and scents, fruit and veg, meat and fish, fancy cakes and glorious cheeses. Almost all the merchants are independent. And the building itself is interesting to walk around in with its narrow lanes of shops under a beamed ceiling. It was designed by John Gwynn who also designed Oxford's famous Magdalen Bridge. There are a number of sandwich shops and a pub or two but if you'd like to experience a really English "caff," try Brown's Cafe.
Chris Mellor/Getty Images
Oxford Castle started as an Anglo Saxon fortress, before William the Conqueror, and parts of it are at least 1,000 years old. Parapsychologists claim it is one of the most haunted buildings in Britain. They would, wouldn't they though excavations to make the building safe for visitors have revealed the details of the creepy 18th-century Debtors’ Tower and a 900 year old underground Crypt. There's also a castle curse, dating from the Black Assize of 1577, when hundreds of people died within weeks who attended the trial of Rowland Jenkes, including the Sheriff, the jury, the witnesses and the judge all died of mysterious causes.
Between 1071 and 1995 the castle was in continuous use as a prison. Take a guided tour to find out about some of its most interesting and gruesome stories.
Jim Linwood/Flickr/CC BY 2.0
The Turf Tavern, familiar to fans of television's Inspector Morse reruns, is one of Oxford's many celebrated pubs. It's down an alley so narrow that, in parts, you cannot even stretch both arms as you pass through it. It's in a Grade II listed, 18th century building, though the earliest reports of it are in tax records of King Richard II and dated 1381. Inside, it's a warren of levels and staircases. Although it does attract tourists, it's so hard to find that only the most determined non- locals actually get there. It's also popular with students and the occasional celebrity — the drunken arguments between Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton in the mid 1960s became legends.  
MelanieGermain/Getty Images
Punting is a classic way to mess about in boats at both Oxford and Cambridge. In Oxford they do it on the River Cherwell, from the Cherwell Boathouse or from Magdalen Bridge Boathouse, just beside Magdalen Bridge, by Oxford High Street.
Punts are flat bottomed boats that can carry up to six people — the punter and five passengers. The punter stands on a flat platform at one end and propels and steers the boat with a long pole. Even if you've never heard the term, you may have seen punting in an old English film.
On film it always seems effortless, romantic and peaceful. But of course it's harder than that.
Don't worry, if you don't think you can manage the pole, you can arrange for a chauffeured punt from Magdalen Boathouse, with an experienced punter, boathouse, often a student, doing the hard work.
Alan Baxter/Getty Images
The Sheldonian Theatre is Oxford's ceremonial gathering place. It is where students are welcomed to the University and where they receive their diplomas upon graduation.
It is also a music venue where you can listen to a concert in a building constructed between 1664 and 1669 as the first major design of architect Sir Christopher Wren. Time your visit well and you can listen to music performed by the Oxford Philharmonic Orchestra and visiting ensembles and soloists. There's at least one concert a month throughout the year and more frequent public events in the summer months.
The Oxford Artisan Distillery 
The spirits in question are gin, vodka, absinthe and rye made at The Oxford Artisan Distillery (TOAD, you see). It's a fascinating place with riveted copper stills in the best Steampunk tradition. In fact the two stills are called Nemo and Nautilus, with a nod toward the great Steampunk inspiration, Jules Verne.
We've heard they use ancient heritage grain grown from seed reclaimed from Oxfordshire's 16th and 17th century thatched roofs. Not sure we believe that but it certainly makes a great story and you never know.
You can ask about it on one of their tours — 45 minutes for 90 minutes — both of which end with a tasting of a selection of their gins. If you go for the 90 minute tour, costing £50 in 2019, make sure you have a designated driver because it ends with a chance to taste their entire range and finish it off (our yourself) with a large gin and tonic. Cheers.
After lunch or a morning shopping in Oxford, this gentle stroll will put you in the mood to bend your elbow in a picturesque pub.
TripSavvy / Ferne Arfin
Great Tom, in the Tom Tower, usually called Old Tom, is Oxford's loudest bell. At 9:05 every night, it rings 101 times. The tradition arises from the original number of students in the college -- plus one added in 1663. Five minutes after nine was once the time that the Oxford Colleges closed their gates and locked their doors. Great Tom was rung to indicate that each of the original 101 students was safely inside the gates.
The  Old Tom Pub across the street from the Tom Tower since 1769 is, coincidentally, at Number 101 Aldgate.
The Tom Tower was designed by Christopher Wren, in 1682, for Christchurch College's famous bell, Great Tom. Under the tower is the gate to the colleges Old Schools Quad -- some structures of which date to a priory that existed on the site in the 12th century, long before Christchurch was founded in the 16th century.
The bowler-hatted gate porter is polite but firm. The entrance to Christchurch College's Old School Quad, through gates below the Tom Tower, is for students and fellows only. Visitors must find their way to the paying entrance, round the corner.
Henry VIII linked Christchurch College's chapel to the diocese of Oxford making it both a college chapel and the city's cathedral - The UK's smallest, in fact. Included in the cathedral is a reconstructed canopy from the tomb of Oxford's patron saint, St. Frideswide. She founded a priory here even earlier than the Augustinian priory of the 12th century that is incorporated in the current Cathedral. Christchurch Cathedral is one of Oxford's most popular sites.
Christchurch is one of Oxford's biggest colleges and also one of its most famous. Visitors from around the world come to see the Cathedral, the Library and the Picture Gallery. The Picture Gallery houses Hans Holbein's famous portrait of Henry VIII along with paintings by Hals, Tintoretto, Veronese and Van Dyck.
The curious also come because of the college's famous alumni - John Locke, whose philosphy informed the framers of the U.S. Constitution; William Penn, founder of Pennsylvania, and Charles Dodgson, who under the nom de plume of Lewis Carroll, wrote "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland".
Unfortunately, because of its renown, the lines to pay the £4.50 entrance fee (visible in this picture) are always long and slow.
Founded in 1264, Merton is one of Oxford's oldest colleges. Many of the original buildings survive, including the chapel. A plaque inside the chapel lists all of the Wardens of the College, from Peter of Abingdon in 1264 to Professor Dame Jessica Rawson, appointed in 1994. It is an impressive and unbroken succession of 48 generations of wardens.
Merton College Library in The Mob Quadrangle dates from 1373. It is the oldest continuously functioning library for academics and students in the world.
A white house, near the Bridge of Sighs on New College Lane, was the home and observatory of Edmund Halley, discoverer of the Comet named after him. A simple plaque (inset), just visible through the bushes, marks the spot.
One of Oxford University's most famous sights, the Bridge of Sighs across New College Lane, connects the buildings of Hertford (pronounced "Hartford") College. It's so narrow, you just might miss St. Helen's Passage, indicated by the arrow. Turn right into the passage - hardly wide enough for you to spread your arms - and follow it to the famous Turf Tavern.
St. Helen's Passage, twists, narrows and widens. Just as you think you are lost and are about to give up, a tiny sign for the historic Turf Tavern, Inspector Morse's favorite pub, comes into view.
A saying of University of Mississippi (aka Ole Miss) football fans that has become popular is: “We may not win every game, but we never lose a party." That saying couldn’t be truer as you’ll discover on a trip down to Oxford, Mississippi. The football hasn’talways been great at Ole Miss over the years, with only one SEC division title since it split into divisions in 1992, but you’ll know their schedule will be full of competitive SEC West teams. The Grove, however, is possibly the greatest tailgating experience in all of college football with the masses all gathered in an area just north of Vaught-Hemingway Stadium. Your true taste of the South awaits on a college football weekend in Oxford.
As mentioned above, Ole Miss plays in the SEC West and recently the SEC determined its non-divisional opponents until 2025. The Rebels got to play a home game against Georgia in 2016, and will get to play home games against South Carolina in 2018, Florida in 2020, and Missouri in 2024, but you don’t have to wait for those schools to find a good game to see. Good games to see in even-numbered years are Alabama and Auburn with LSU and Texas A&M coming to town in odd-numbered years. Mississippi State is their biggest rival, but the game takes place over Thanksgiving and could be missing the usual buzz of the student body unless both teams are successful in that given year. You likely won’t get too excited about Ole Miss cross-division rivalry game with home games against Vanderbilt every other year because Vanderbilt obviously isn’t a football powerhouse. But if you can only squeeze in an inferior opponent, I guarantee you’ll still enjoy Oxford.
As you’d expect, tickets aren’t the easiest things to come by. You generally won’t be able to find tickets on the primary market through the University of Mississippi because most tickets are sold to alumni or students. You’ll likely end up having to look secondary ticket options like StubHub and eBay or a ticket aggregator (think Kayak for sports tickets) like SeatGeek and ‎TiqIQ. Craigslist is another option for deal-making but doesn’t have the same security of knowing you’re buying real tickets. You can also try working the tailgates before the game to see if anyone’s selling, but it’s probably worth securing the tickets earlier if you’re traveling all that way.
Oxford, Mississippi isn’t the easiest place to get to. You can fly into the Oxford University airport by either private jet or with Southern Airways Express from Atlanta, Destin (Florida), and Jackson (Mississippi) on Fridays. Otherwise, you need to fly into Memphis and drive the hour and a half to Oxford. You can get to Memphis from mostly anywhere in the country. At least some major airline can get you there from your closest major city. The drive is also under three hours from Jackson and Birmingham, under four hours from Little Rock and Nashville, and about five hours from Atlanta and New Orleans. No bus or train service operates to Oxford so the train is your only way in.
The biggest problem when visiting Oxford is finding a hotel room. It’s not like some other college towns with hotels in the town and other hotels within a decent driving decent that you can take taxis to and from on game weekends. The hotels in and around The Square, the heart of downtown Oxford, are very expensive during game weekends and get booked months in advance. If you can plan far enough in advance and have money to spend, the two choices to look at are the Downtown Oxford Inn and The Inn at Ole Miss. Outside of that, the closest hotels are two or more miles away from downtown. The low-end brands that make up these other hotels are names you know like Hampton Inn, Super 8, and Holliday Inn Express, but the lack of convenience will make things a pain.
The best alternative is to rent an RV. There are numerous areas around campus to park your RV and your location will be better the earlier you arrive. You should be able to get around reasonably well if you don’t mind walking places. (Taxis are a little hard to find.) Those flying into Memphis can pick up an RV within a taxi ride from the airport. A second alternative is to look into renting a house or a condo via VRBO or Airbnb. Anything you can get close to the Square would be the ideal situation.
It’s time to talk about the best part of your Ole Miss adventure, the Grove. It’s a tailgating scene so grand that it has its own Wikipedia page. People get to the 10-acre park just north of Vaught-Hemingway Stadium on Fridays before games and set up shop. Rules have changed over the years as to how early tailgates can be setup (historically they’ve been anywhere from the morning to the afternoon to midnight), so you’ll need to check with local information when you go. (There are still some people who skirt the rules and lock down their space before they’re supposed to.)
There are three key rules to the Grove that you’ll need to know ahead of time. Rule #1 is that open flames aren’t allowed. Tailgates are generally known for burgers and dogs, but you won’t be seeing any of those here. You’ll witness things like sandwiches, prepared appetizers, or even trays of local favorites like Chick-fil-A or Zaxby’s because people still do need to eat. Rule #2 is that no cars are allowed on the Grove. Space is at a premium, so tents will be laid out one next to the other. Rule #3, and probably the most important one, is that all drinks must be consumed out of cups because of some antiquated local laws about consuming alcohol.
This doesn’t mean you won’t enjoy yourself at the Grove. There’s still plenty of beer to consume (just make sure you have your cup) and food to eat (just not a fresh cheeseburger). Things start as early as 4 a.m. for some and everyone’s well dressed, so make sure you dress accordingly. It won’t matter if you don’t have your own tailgate spot set up. You can always walk around with a cooler of your own and jump in on someone else’s tailgate because making friends is easy.
As with every small college town, there are great places the local rave about that you’ll want to see for yourself. The first place on the menu is a breakfast at Big Bad Breakfast. Known for using chili in all their breakfast dishes, you’ll enjoy whatever your heart desires. Hash browns and house-cured are suggested sides with your meal, but don’t leave without having their biscuits. Despite the name, they also serve really good fried chicken and burgers for lunch. (They close after that.) The next stop on your food tour is Ajax Diner. You’re eating typical southern food here with things like chicken and dumplings or fried catfish. There are also well-liked burgers here, such as “The Deuce,” which is a two-patty burger with bacon and cheese. Try grabbing the chicken fried steak sandwich known as “The Big Easy,” which comes with baked beans, potatoes and gravy piled on top. Squeeze in the broccoli and rice casserole if you have room left.
There are a couple other places to grab burgers. As featured on TV’s Burger Land, Phillips Grocery offers the skillet-fried dough burger, which mixes in flour with the burger meat. It may sound weird, but you’ll enjoy it. The Lamar Lounge offers the Lamar Burger for your last on the burger list. They know how to lock the juices inside by providing some good char on the outside.
Taylor Grocery is known for their catfish and rotel fries, which are of the spicy home variety, but it is 20 minutes south of Oxford. In an interesting twist, you can brown bag your alcohol while there and you might need to since there’s often a wait for a table. Keeping with groceries, City Grocery is a popular spot that gets booked up quickly with reservations. You’ll also need to secure a reservation at Snackbar, part of the City Grocery family, which is slightly fancier than some other local spots. The cocktails go well with your oysters and any main course of your choosing. You might have to go at odd times, but the shrimp and grits is worth it. You’ll also find some barbecue in town because this is the south after all. Handy Andy’s is your place for that, but they have good burgers too. You can also find a fabulous Boure burger at Boure or get their surf and turf if you’ve had too many burgers at this point.
You can’t make a trip to an Ole Miss football game in Oxford without going to The Library. I’m not referring to the place on campus with books, but the bar that’s always listed as one of the best college bars in the country. It’s really a trio of bars, but the main area is a club and live music venue that’s open to those 18+. There’s also the Library Patio and The Library Sports bar to hold your interest. You may complain about the $20 cover on football weekends, but you’ll enjoy yourself once you’re inside. If you’re lucky, you’ll get your hands on the sought after Library card and get in for free. They sell a limited amount of them a couple times a year or put on competitions for you to win them. You’ll likely spend a majority of the drinking portion of your weekend here.
Most other bars in Oxford are around The Square. Most places are your standard college bars. Dive spots like (the basement of) the Rib Cage and Levee can keep you entertained if you like that type of scene. You’ll likely catch see student-athletes at Funky’s, which is next door to the Library. It’s referred to as a “pizza and daiquiri” bar, but offers a much more laid-back scene. If you’re into music there are a couple options. Those in the mood for a piano bar can go to Frank and Marlee’s. Proud Larry’s has local indie bands or The Lyric generally has enjoyable concerts, so check their listings before you go. Head to Rooster’s if you’re looking for a more boisterous atmosphere, which is pretty fratty and generally full with a fun crowd.
People in search of an authentic and traditional English pub experience manage to keep The Turf Tavern buzzing despite its almost secret location.
Visit any day of the week and you'll find the Turf Tavern full of university students, academics, local families and visitors from all over the world in search of British TV icon Inspector Morse's favorite boozer.
The fictional detective, created by Colin Dexter and featured on the long-running British television series, was only one of this pub's famous (if fictional) customers. Among the real live celebs: Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton were reputed to stop in while staying nearby; the cast and crew of the Harry Potter films hung out while shooting in Oxford; Stephen Hawking, Thomas Hardy, Emma Watson and Ernest Hemingway bent their elbows at this bar (not all at the same time). It's also alleged to be the place where, during their Oxford University days, former Australian PM Bob Hawke downed a yard of ale in 11 seconds --making the Guinness Book of Records--and President Bill Clinton, famously, didn't inhale.
Christopher Middleton, writing in the Telegraph, said of this pub, "You could have been visiting Oxford for the past 600 years and still not found The Turf Tavern." That about says it. Finding this fascinating little pub with its very long history is something of a challenge. 
Turn down New College Lane, across from the Bodleian Library. Pass under Oxford's much-photographed Bridge of Sighs and almost immediately turn left into St. Helen's Passage, an alley so narrow you may not be able to spread both your arms. It used to be called Hell Passage. In Evelyn Waugh's Brideshead Revisited Charles says, "The Turf in Hell Passage knew us well."
The passage widens and narrows as it turns corners. About 150 yards along--just as you think you are lost--the tiny Turf Tavern comes into view. Go straight ahead through a tiny, green door or follow meandering passages to the right and left into beer gardens. The Turf may not be Oxford's oldest pub but its ancient foundations support a warren of small, oddly shaped rooms, connected by narrow passages, small staircases, and two small, busy bars.
An easier way--but so much less adventurous and not anywhere near as much fun--is to enter Bath Place, a cobbled pedestrian lane, off Holywell Street. The pub is about 300 feet along from this direction.
Just how old the Turf Tavern is and whether it is the oldest pub in Oxford is also a bit of a mystery. Certainly, it is one of the oldest, competing with The Bear, a Fuller's pub that claims to be serving since 1242. The ramshackle, half-timbered facade that faces Bath Place is probably early 17th century. A sign on the side of the pub claims they've been serving since the 12th century (that would be the 1100s). But the earliest confirmed report of the place is 1381 in the tax records of the reign of King Richard II.
Once you do find it, there is plenty to enjoy in its tiny, interconnected rooms. Despite being a managed pub (meaning it is run by a brewing company), the managers, Greene King, have maintained the character of a freehouse, offering a wide range of real ales and beers. Guest ales are kept on tap, with the selection changing daily. Wine is available by the glass and bottle and champagne by the bottle. Orange juice, soft drinks, and coffee are dispensed with as much good cheer as alcoholic beverages. And if they have time for a chat (which isn't often) the servers at a bar about as big as a closet will guide you through all the choices.
Insider tip: Don't miss the mulled red wine. It's a pub specialty in the winter.
Main courses range from traditional English pub dishes like Cumberland sausages and mash, beef and ale pie, and fish and chips, to burgers and salads. Sides include great triple cooked chips. Desserts are traditional and solidly English--sticky toffee pudding, Eton Mess cheesecake, triple chocolate brownie. We like the dipping doughnuts with strawberry and apple dipping sauce. 
Wrapped by other buildings on all sides, the pub's three outdoor beer gardens are comfortable year-round. In the Middle Ages, these courtyards were venues for cockfights and worse. The pub's name comes from the turfmen or turf accountants (bookies) who took bets here. But that's all ancient history, today the beer gardens are kept cozy by charcoal, in large braziers and customers are invited to toast marshmallows over them -- especially popular with kids.
It's a rare pub, nowadays, that manages to be crowded with locals yet cheerful and friendly to strangers at the same time. Take the trouble to find this wonderful, atmospheric pub.
Getting from London to Oxford, only 60 miles away, is easy and there's a variety of routes you can take. This fascinating city is home to the world's oldest English language university. Many of the colleges are open to the public or offer tours of their historic buildings. Oxford has one of the world's oldest public museums - the Ashmolean, lots of atmospheric pubs like the Turf Tavern, a hotel in a converted Victorian Prison and more Harry Potter connections than you can wave a wand at. Use these resources to find out how to get there from the capital. It makes a great day trip or short break.
Trains leave for  Oxford Station every 5 to 10 minutes from  Paddington Station. The journey takes about an hour. In 2019, standard round trip, off-peak tickets were about £25, but much cheaper round trip fares are available when purchased as two, one-way tickets, well in advance.
The Oxford Tube is a very popular way to get to Oxford by bus. The company runs buses 24 hours a day. They leave London Victoria Coach Station every ten to 15 minutes, throughout the day and have frequently scheduled departures throughout the night. The trip takes about an hour and 40 minutes. The Oxford Tube has pick -up points from multiple stops in London and in Oxford. The fare costs £15 one way or £18 for same-day round-trip. There are multiple trip deals, as well as student, senior and child fares available.
National Express run coach trips to Oxford Bus Station from  London Victoria Coach Station virtually round the clock. Buses leave every 15 minutes during peak times. The journey takes about an hour and 40 minutes. Round trip tickets for specific, booked trips cost £19.00. Open return tickets that can be used up to three months after purchase cost £21.50. Tickets can be booked online.
Oxford is 62 miles northwest of London via the M4, M25, M40 and A roads. It takes about an hour and a half to drive and as a commuter route using motorways, it's not a very interesting drive. If you do go there by car, you will be in the middle of the Cotswolds, a great touring area, and within a short drive of Blenheim Palace. Keep in mind that gasoline, called petrol in the UK, is sold by the liter (a little more than a quart) and the price is usually more than $1.50 a quart.
Brown's Café in Oxford Covered Market is the kind of local secret that everybody knows about. For decades students, locals, professors, and tourists have been rubbing shoulders in this unpretentious, typical English "caff" - nevermind that it's been run for years by a Portuguese family. They come to fill up on cheap, homey comfort food, made well and served with friendly dignity.
The decor looks as though it has been there since before the flood -- wood-paneled walls painted pale cream, sometimes decorated with dusty bunches of plastic flowers and checked vinyl tablecloths on some of the wobbly tables.
But looks aren't everything. I ate lunch beside an Oxford professor who had been a regular as a student, 27 years earlier. Today, her daughter was tucking into a huge slab of apple pie, smothered in yellow custard sauce - one of the café's standout favorites. Around us university students and teachers, tourists, secretaries, shop clerks, truck drivers and market traders devoured such traditional English fare as shepherd's pie, stuffed jacket potatoes, liver and onions, haddock and chips, plus sandwiches and burgers -- none of it costing much more than a fiver and all of it homemade by the family owners.
By the way, don't confuse this Brown's Café with the bistro and cocktail bar across from St. Giles church, also called Browns. That one is half a mile away in distance and a million miles away in style.
What the British call nursery food is the kind of uncomplicated, familiar food most of them ate as children and remember with nostalgia. This is the sort of place where you can indulge - and you'd be hard pressed to spend much more than £15 even if you chose three courses of the most expensive items on the menu.
Does the idea of a full English breakfast first thing in the morning (fried eggs and chips, bacon, sausage, baked beans, grilled tomatoes, sauteed mushrooms) give your stomach the flip flops? Not to worry. Not too many English people can face all that, before midday, either. So it's a good thing that Brown's serves breakfast all day long - under £10 for the full Monty with toast and coffee. Here's what else you need to know:
Minster Lovell Hall and Dovecote, hidden at the top of a tiny Cotswold village, stands quietly and romantically beside the deep, clear, fast-running River Windrush. It boasts an intact ancient dovecote and several original fish ponds. Inside the entrance, there's an impressive remnant of the original vaulted ceiling.
The scenic setting, surrounded by woodland and tucked behind the equally ancient churchyard of St Kenelm's Church, is perfect for a romantic or a family picnic. There's plenty of room for both. And this is the kind of scene that 18th-century landscape painters loved to capture in oils—so if you are artistically inclined, bring your sketch pad.
A manor occupied this site, in the tiny Minster Lovell hamlet of Old Minster, about 15 miles west of Oxford, from the 12th century. But the ruins now standing are all that are left of a house built by the Lovell family in 1430. Like a lot of scenic English ruins, age and time and weather didn't cause it to crumble. Conflicts and politics did.
William, Baron of Lovell and Holand who built the house around 1430, was one of England's richest men. His son John was a prominent Lancastrian and a courtier of Henry VI. But family fortunes took a nose dive when his grandson Francis Lovell, John's son and the ninth baron, sided with the Yorkists in the Wars if the Roses, the disputes between the houses of York and Lancaster.
He was made a Viscount by King Richard III. But within two years, Richard was killed and the Yorkists defeated at the Battle of Bosworth. Francis Lovell was forced to forfeit his estates and go into a short exile in France. On his return, he took up the losing side once again in a failed Yorkist rebellion and was never heard of again.
Unless of course, you believe the ghost stories...
Over the centuries, ghostly wailing has been reported around Minster Lovell Hall and St. Kenelm's churchyard. According to local legend, Francis Lovell, who had joined the losing side in the Wars of the Roses, fled back to his estate and hid in a vault at Minster Lovell Hall. He gave a servent the only key.
The servant died shortly after and no one was left of feed, water or rescue Lord Lovell and his little dog. His skeleton, so the story goes, was found by workmen in 1708, surrounded by moldy books and the skeleton of his little dog at his feet. Could this be the ghost who wails in the night?
Perhaps...but there is another, earlier and grislier tale connected with this place.
In this story, William Lovell's bride disappeared during a game of hide and seek in the hall on her wedding night. Many years later, a servant found the body of a girl dressed in a bridal gown, well preserved in a leaden cool chest used for food storage. Legend, again, suggests that she hid in the chest during the wedding party and the lid fell shut, trapping her inside. As people tell this tale, it is William, wandering the halls searching for his bride, who moans and wails at night.
Of course, English Heritage, who manage the site, have no truck with any of this and present a straightforward, historical account of Minster Lovell Hall on their website.
Explore the village or the countryside and make a day of it.
Ghosts or no ghosts, a visit to Minster Lovell Hall, combined with lunch or tea in a nearby pub or gastropub makes a great day's outing in Oxfordshire.
There's not much to the hamlet of Old Minster but its street of flower covered Cotswold stone cottages, some with thatch, is lovely. Arrive in warm weather and you could be lucky enough to witness a local cricket match on the village playing field.
St Kenelm's Church, just beside the ruined hall, was built in the 15th century and has been virtually unchanged since 1450. The church is open to visitors during daylight hours, year round. 
The Hall is at the center of a network of local public footpaths that skirt fields with browsing cattle and crystal clear, meandering streams before plunging into dark, rustling woodlands. The Oxfordshire County Council maintains several moderate and well waymarked circular walks  in the area. Or try an easy 4-mile walk mapped out by the AA that begins and ends on the Old Minster high street.
The AA - and I - also rate the Old Swan, a 600-year-old pub that is part of a luxury country inn, The Old Swan & Minster Mill. Stop there for a beer or an unpretentious pub lunch featuring local ingredients.
