Palma de Mallorca (also spelled Majorca) is the capital city of the Spanish Balearic Islands of the Mediterranean. These sunny islands have long been popular as Mediterranean vacation destinations for northern Europeans and those on cruises to the western Mediterranean. The island of Mallorca is the largest of the Balearic Islands and is covered with picturesque mountains and valleys and some good beaches.
If you only have a day in Palma de Mallorca, you might want to visit the pretty village of Valldemossa or ride the old train between Soller and Palma.
However, if you would just like to wander the streets of the fascinating capital city of Palma de Mallorca, there is plenty to see and do. These photos from Palma de Mallorca were made on three trips to the island from the Silversea Silver Whisper, the Regent Seven Seas Voyager, and the Windstar Wind Surf.
When sailing into Palma, the capital city of Mallorca, the giant cathedral named La Seu is the most prominent landmark visible.
The Palau de l'Almudaina was originally the palace of the Moorish governors and later the palace of the Mallorcan kings. It is located next to La Seu.
Cruise ships dock about four miles from old town Palma. If you are in the mood for some exercise, the walk is flat and the harbor sights interesting.
King Jaume II of Mallorca started building the gothic Cathedral in Palma de Mallorca in 1229 after the reconquest of Mallorca from the Moors. He planned the Cathedral, called La Seu, to be built on the site of the Great Mosque. It took over 500 years to complete. The rose window is over 40 feet in diameter.
La Seu's altar is located beneath a giant wrought-iron canopy designed by Antoni Gaudi.
Antoni Gaudi worked on the cathedral in Palma de Mallorca intermittently between 1904 and 1914. His largest contribution to the cathedral is the giant hanging wrought-iron canopy that is supposed to symbolize the Crown of Thorns. Gaudi also introduced electric lighting to the Cathedral, which was quite a novelty in the early 1900's.
The 10th century Arab Bath House in Palma is one of the last remnants of the Moorish presence in Mallorca.
As your cruise ship sails away from Palma, the last sight will be the same as your first one--the towering cathedral.
