Walking Tour of Paris from Notre Dame to the Eiffel Tower and Arc de Triomphe
Paris is on everyone's list of favorite cities in the world. It has beautiful architecture, amazing art museums, and fascinating sights around every corner.
If you love cruising and want to see Paris, you have many options. First, Seine River cruises often embark from Paris and sail to the Normandy coast. Rhone River cruise tours to the south of France also may embark or disembark in Paris. Central Europe river cruise tours on the Moselle, Rhine, and Main Rivers often start in Paris and transfer to the Moselle River on the TGV high-speed train. Finally, a stopover in Paris on your European cruise vacation is often easy to arrange. After all, who wouldn't like an extra day in the city of lights?
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre 
The Champs-Elysses in Paris is one of the most beautiful streets in the world, and the Arc de Triomphe stands at one end of the 1.1 mile street.
Construction of the Arc de Triomphe was begun in 1806 by Napoleon to commemorate his victories. The Arc de Triomphe was completed in 1836. France's Tomb of the Unknown Soldier was added to the site in 1921 after the end of World War II.
View of the Arc de Triomphe at the end of the Champs-Elysees in Paris
The Eiffel Tower in Paris is one of the most famous tourist attractions in the world.
The Eiffel Tower was completed in 1889 by Gustave Eiffel for the Paris International Exposition. The Eiffel Tower stands 984 feet tall, and it has three platforms for viewing Paris.
The Eiffel Tower is just a short walk from a Metro Station in Paris.
Anyone who visits Paris has to stand underneath the Eiffel Tower, climb into the tower, or take one of the elevators to see the view.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
The Hotel de Ville in Paris is the administrative offices of the Mayor and other city officials.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
Notre Dame is one of the most famous Cathedrals in the world. More Notre Dame de Paris Pictures
Napoleon had this Victory Column constructed at the Place du Chatelet near the Hotel de Ville in Paris.
The Palais du Louvre (or Louvre Museum or Musee du Louvre) is the oldest and one of the largest museums in the world.
St-Germain l'Axerrois Church was once the Paris parish church of the French Royal family.
The main entrance to the Louvre Museum in Paris is through this modern glass pyramid designed by American architect I.M. Pei.
The Arc de Triomphe du Carrousel in Paris is not the famous Arc de Triomphe on the Champs-Elysses. This arch is in the Jardin des Tuileries near the Louvre.
The smaller Arch de Triomphe du Carroussel was built by Napoleon at about the same time as the larger Arc de Triomphe on the Champs-Elysses, but is at the east end of the Jardin des Tuileries near the Louvre Museum. The four horses atop the arch were designed by Bosio and added in 1828. The large statues are of Napoleonic soldiers wearing the different uniforms of Napoleon's army.
This smaller arch was built by Napoleon at the same time as the larger, more famous Arc de Triomphe on the Champs-Elysses.
River cruise ships travel the Seine River from Paris to the Normandy coast, and some people live on barges docked along the Seine River in Paris.
Pont Alexandre III is one of the most beautiful bridges in the world.
The Alexandre III bridge connects the Grand and Petit Palais on the right bank of the Seine with the Hotel Invalides on the left bank of the Seine River. Tsar Nicolas of Russia laid the first stone in October 1896. The bridge was named after his father, Tsar Alexander III. The Pont Alexandre III opened just in time for the Universal Exposition of 1900.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
The Hotel des Invalides was the first home for French war veterans and was built between 1671 and 1675 by Louis XIV.
The Grand Palais was built as an exposition hall for the 1900 World's Fair in Paris.
Like the Eiffel Tower, the Grand Palais was not planned as a permanent addition to Paris, and was supposed to be torn down after the 1900 World's Fair. However, over 100 years later it still stands as an exhibition museum.
Notre Dame de Paris is a wonderful example of Gothic architecture. Its soaring roof, spectacular windows, and flying buttresses confirm why this cathedral was considered a symbol of paradise. A visit to Paris is not complete without a tour of Notre Dame de Paris. The cathedral is located near a Metro station on the Seine River, so it is certainly easy to find if you are on a Seine River Cruise. Construction on Notre Dame was begun in 1163, and the cathedral was finished in the 13th century. Since its completion, Notre Dame has been a symbol of all of France. When you visit Paris, be sure to take time to closely observe the details on the facade and interior. And, don't miss the wonderful gargoyles!
Planning a trip to Paris can be stressful, but not for lack of options. Paris is one of the world's top tourist destination and a major European air and rail hub. This means that travelers are virtually flooded with offers for flights, travel packages, and rail options to pick through. Keep scrolling down for our full advice, which should help you to make a well-informed and budget-compatible decision on getting to Paris and back.
Paris has several major airports, the two main hubs being Roissy-Charles de Gaulle and Orly.
Roissy-Charles de Gaulle Airport is the second busiest airport in Europe after London Heathrow, with some 200,000 passengers moving through daily. Located about 15 miles northeast of central Paris, Charles de Gaulle airport offers quick and reliable ground transportation into Paris.Charles de Gaulle Airport has three terminals or "aerogares":
Orly Airport is smaller and several degrees less frenetic than Charles de Gaulle Airport. Hosting around 30 airlines, Orly handles mostly domestic and European flights. Located just 10 miles south of Paris, the airport has two terminals:
Both main Paris airports offer above-average services and amenities, including world-class duty-free and luxury shopping, free shuttle services between terminals, a large selection of restaurants, lounges, and play areas for children. In addition, some terminals, including Terminal 2 at Charles de Gaulle, are free wireless internet hotspots.
Flying to Paris can prove expensive, but if you plan well ahead you can snag a good deal. As a general rule, reserve your tickets at least 3 months ahead of your travel date, and consider flying to Paris outside of the peak period (mid-May to September). In addition, connecting to Paris from London is often a cheaper way to get to the city of light. When flying from within Europe, choosing a low-cost carrier is smart as long as you're willing to forgo frills.
The following airlines provide regular service from major U.S. and Canadian cities to Paris:
For air travel to Paris from within continental Europe and the U.K., most of the companies listed above offer service to Paris from other major European cities. In addition, the following companies fly into Paris daily:
When planning your Parisian sojourn, booking a travel package that includes round-trip air fare, hotel stay, and perhaps other features like guided tours or restaurant vouchers can be a great money-saver. But before you get out your credit card, make sure to read the fine print and scour consumer reviews of the package you're considering buying-- this will limit the risk of getting scammed, or just disappointed.
If you're traveling to Paris from within continental Europe or from the U.K., getting there by train can be a great alternative to flying. For one thing, Europe counts more and more bullet trains (called TGV for 'high-speed train' in France) that can cut rail travel time down by half. The Eurostar train connects London to Paris via the channel tunnel, or "chunnel", making for a truly unforgettable experience. There's also the advantage of foregoing endless airport lines-- not to mention getting a closer glimpse of the French or European countryside. Last, but not least, you'll be choosing a much more environmentally friendly mode of travel, and reducing your carbon footprint-- something you can definitely feel good about even if you do end up spending a bit more money. If you have extra time and you're traveling to Paris from elsewhere in Europe, rail travel may be the right option for you.
Paris has six major train stations serving both domestic and international destinations.
For rail fares, schedules, ticketing and reservations, visit the SNCF national rail company website.
Getting to Paris by the Eurostar can be a good idea for many reasons, especially if you're departing from London.
Also See: How to Get From London to Paris
Students and seniors traveling to Paris can benefit greatly from purchasing a discount card. Even if you don't fall into the "right" age bracket, travel companies regularly advertise special offers for discount travel to Paris.
There are numerous deals out there for train travel, but it requires a little early investigative work. Explore some of these options:
Are you planning a European vacation with stays in several cities or countries and want to figure out how to get to Paris from other hubs around Europe? Click on the guides below to find complete information on flights, trains and rental cars to Paris from other major European cities. Each guide provides pros and cons on various forms of transport to help you make the right decision.
How to Travel From London to ParisHow to Travel From Dublin to ParisHow to Travel From Edinburgh to Paris
How to Travel From Barcelona to ParisHow to Travel From Madrid to ParisHow to Travel From Lisbon to Paris
How to Travel From Milan to ParisHow to Travel From Rome to ParisHow to Travel From Florence to ParisHow to Travel From Venice to Paris
How to Travel From Berlin to ParisHow To Travel From Munich to ParisHow to Travel From Frankfurt to ParisHow to Travel From Hamburg to ParisHow to Travel From Vienna to Paris
How to Get From Amsterdam to Paris
How to Travel From Brussels to Paris
How to Travel From Zurich to Paris
How to Travel From Geneva to Paris
Paris boasts one of the world's safest and most efficient public transportation systems. While the metro subway system is extensive, it's generally safe and easy to use once you familiarize yourself with it a bit. Trains usually arrive on time; buses are well-appointed and spacious, and commuter express ("RER") trains service the city's most important stops in record time. What's not to love?
There are admittedly a few things that travelers can find confusing or downright unnerving about the French capital's transportation system. For one thing, trains and buses are more often than not overcrowded — and Paris' status as one of the world's most-visited cities doesn't help matters. For another, many metro lines lack air-conditioning — positive from an ecological standpoint, but watch out for those summer steambaths (and grouchy travelers). Public transportation here is also notoriously lacking where accessibility to disabled visitors is concerned. Gym rats may rejoice at the endless tunnels and stairs that snake through the Paris underground, but after a day visiting the city, the lack of elevators or escalators in some stations can be a real headache. Parents with young children or strollers may find this point particularly frustrating.
The good news? The Paris city government takes public transport very seriously, and every year a big chunk of the budget is reserved for improving traffic and passenger conditions in Paris trains, buses, and tramways. In the coming years, you can expect Paris public transportation to become more efficient, accessible and comfortable. Lots of new stations are also being added, making it easier than ever to get around.
Keep reading to learn how to navigate Paris public transport them like a pro, including advice on the best tickets and passes, plotting your trip, safety and more.
The metro and other public transport is generally safe, but pickpockets operate on many lines. Keep your wits about you and your valuables close to your person. See this page for more information on traveling safely, including advice on what to do in case of an incident or emergency.
You can buy tickets and passes for Parisian public transportation networks at any metro, RER or tramway station, and when boarding buses. They are also available at Paris Tourist information centers around the city, and can sometimes be found at newsstands or tabacs (tobacco vendors).
Depending on the length of your stay, how much you'll use public transport, and whether you plan on day trips to places like the Chateau de Versailles or Disneyland Paris, you'll need to choose between single metro tickets, packs of tickets (called "carnets"), or one of several useful transport passes. Below is a rundown of your options and some tips on how to choose the right one. Never purchase tickets from vendors on the street or hovering around the entrance to stations; these tickets might be counterfeited and could cost you later in fines and extra time and money spent.
For more information on using the Paris Metro system, see the local transport authority RATP's official website (in English). You can download free maps, search timetables and plan your itinerary, as well as find information on current rates, network issues and other information.
The RER, Paris' commuter train system, consists of five express trains that travel within Paris and the greater region (contrary to the metro, which stops just outside the city limits). The RER can get you to your destination much faster since it stops at far fewer stops than the Metro.
The primary hub for outgoing and incoming RER trains is the Châtelet-Les Halles station. Other major hubs include Gare du Nord, St. Michel/Notre Dame, and Gare de Lyon. The RER, which is run by a different (public) company than the Paris Metro, can be a bit complicated at first, but the time gained is generally worth it.
It takes roughly 20 minutes to get from Denfert-Rochereau in South Paris to Gare du Nord in the North. The same route by metro would often add at least ten minutes.
Like the metro, RER lines are identifiable by letters (A through E) and end-of-line names. However, the RER is more complicated than the metro because each line breaks into different directions at a certain point, making it easy to get lost (and waste funds and time) if you hop on the wrong train. Follow these tips to make your journey go more smoothly:
Operating hours for RER lines vary, but on average the commuter trains run from 5:15 a.m. to midnight or 12:30 a.m. For itineraries and hours, consult the RATP itinerary-finder page.
When visiting Paris, trying to figure out how to use buses to get around the city can seem like a challenge. Yet the bus can be both more scenic and less claustrophobic than the metro or RER. Taking time to get familiar with the city's clean and pleasant buses can pay off. With a total of 64 lines operating within the Parisian city limits, you can get just about anywhere the metro will take you — and often to a wider variety of destinations.
If you're a disabled or elderly traveler, you may find taking the bus much easier: most are now equipped with ramps, unlike the metro which is still woefully inadequate where accessibility is concerned.
Bus stops are found all around the city and more often than not are hubs for several different lines. Recently, a majority of bus stops were equipped with electronic information systems that tell you when to expect the next bus. Neighborhood maps and bus routes are also displayed at most stations, as well as at Paris tourist information offices.
Paris buses are marked by double numbers and the name of the end of the line marked on the front. You can use T+ metro tickets or weekly and monthly passes to ride the bus, but if you've already used a single ticket in the metro, you can't transfer to the bus. You can, however, transfer between two buses without extra cost providing you do so within 90 minutes of boarding the first. Ask the driver to stamp ("valider") your ticket when you board the first bus.
Certain bus routes are particularly scenic and can be a cheap alternative to Paris bus tours. You can see an map of bus lines in Paris here.
Hours vary considerably, but major lines run from approximately 5:30 a.m. to midnight. Night owls rejoiced in 2006 when Paris inaugurated a new night bus system throughout the city and suburbs, making partying late much less of a pain. Buses leave from most spots around the city at intervals of 15 to 30 minutes.
Paris had a tramway in the 19th century, which was subsequently dismantled and replaced with the metro. But a swelling city population and a need to connect Paris with its suburbs has led to the revival of the tramway in the city of light.
The city now has a total of eight tramway lines running within Paris' city limits, mostly around the outer bounds and numbered T1 through T8.
Many tourists wonder when or whether to take a taxi in Paris. The short answer is that you won't usually need to-- unless you have special needs owing to a disability or limited mobility, or you don't like walking or taking public transportation.
If you do choose to take a taxi, make sure to keep these tips in mind:
 
If you enjoy getting around by bike, you may wonder whether it's a good idea to attempt to do so during your stay in the French capital. While Paris does have a bike rental scheme called Velib', it has numerous downsides:
For all these reasons, we don't generally recommend Velib' to tourists. However, many tour companies offer guided bike and segway tours around the city, including fun night tours. They generally provide helmets, know the best and safest routes to take, and watch out for visitors' general safety and well-being.
Paris is a relatively easy city to get around if you arrive armed with the right information. Here are some tips to help you navigate public transport like a local — and avoid unnecessary frustration and claustrophobia en route.
Few cities can claim greater stature than Paris in the food and dining department. It may not be the place where the greatest culinary risks are taken these days, and some even accuse the gastronomic culture in Paris of being stodgy at best (and overrated at the worst). Nonetheless, gastronomes around the world continue to look to Paris as a model and inspiration, and the gourmet traditions established in the country that invented the notion of haute cuisine continue to be cherished-- from how to achieve a perfect, golden baguette to pairing dishes with wines. Even many vegetarian and vegan eateries in Paris aren't half-bad these days. Read on for our delicious suggestions on where to head, no matter your tastes or desired dining style.
Food connoisseurs should always reserve time for a meal at one of Paris' top gourmet restaurants, world-renowned gastronomic establishments that have earned up to three Michelin stars for exceptional cuisine and service. Star chefs such as Alain Ducasse and Guy Savoy guarantee a gastronomic experience that palates will savor for some time, serving up delicacies such as foie gras ravioli or wild Breton lobster. Learn more about which Paris restaurants have been awarded creme de la creme status, and find out how to make space in your budget for these temples of taste.
Paris has more restaurants per square foot than you can muster. When you're on a budget and can't afford to fork out a fortune for a meal in a high gastronomic establishment, it can be a challenge to sift through Paris' many mediocre kitchens and find a spot where quality and budget are compatible.
Browse this collection of Paris restaurant reviews to find a great place to eat out in Paris, regardless of your budget or desired cuisine.
Other Great Resources:
The Parisian culinary scene is a wonderland for committed foodies-- unless you're vegetarian, of course. With meat, the star attraction of France's world-revered cuisine, don't be surprised if your assertion of vegetarianism is met with confusion. Luckily, though, dig a little deeper and you'll discover a limited yet flourishing vegetarian (and dare I say it, vegan) restaurant scene. Don't fret if you can't seem to get past the foie gras and steak-frites section of the menu: these vegetarian and vegan Paris restaurants serve some excellent and appetizing options.
Street food in Paris can be absolutely wonderful-- take the case of the Marais district's famed falafels-- or positively horrid and even hygienically questionable (mayonnaise-laced tuna sandwiches left to sit in unrefrigerated display windows comes to mind). Read more on where to find great, cheap, and even healthy fast food in Paris, and avoid the bad stuff. You may also want to check out our guide to the best crepes and creperies in Paris.
Romantic restaurants in Paris are easy enough to come by, but finding a combination of ambiance and quality may be a challenge. Assuming that you reserve ahead and avoid overly noisy or crowded establishments, dinner for two can be a highly romantic affair in Paris.
You might assume that eating out in restaurants with kids will be a nightmarish experience in Paris! But this needn't be the case. Consult this handy list of tips on how to keep young and picky eaters happy and full during your next trip.
There is nothing more French, or more specifically-- Parisian-- than taking a few moments out of your day to sit with an espresso in one of the city's thousands of cafes. Indoors on a cozy banquette or out on a sunny terrace, drinking and people-watching is one of the most cherished past-times in France. While there are charming and unique spots all over Paris, this list includes some of the classics, including renowned traditional brasseries such as La Closerie des Lilas, where they take the food just as seriously as the coffee and drinks.
While a majority of Paris restaurants shut down for Christmas Eve and day, several remain open, offering Christmas lunch or dinner service. A word of caution, though: you should always try to book ahead at least a month in advance, as spots fill up quickly. I've categorized the restaurants by price and prestige. The majority of these restaurants offer traditional French holiday fare such as oysters and shellfish, foie gras, stuffed goose or pheasant, but I've also listed a few Paris restaurants that remain open for Christmas and offer other specialties.
Most waitstaff at Paris restaurants know basic English, so ordering or paying is rarely a problem if your French is nonexistent. Still, to adhere to the "when in Rome" spirit, why not learn a few useful words and phrases commonly used in restaurants? You'll have a more interesting experience if you can use some of this basic Paris restaurant vocabulary, and may find the staff to be even warmer when they see you're making an effort to wield some French.
For wine lovers, Paris offers no shortage of wine bars where you can both buy or taste wine and pair great vintages with delicious cheese, charcuterie or full meals.
Whether you're craving a good Bento box, bowl of steaming udon or ramen noodles, or a good Japanese omelet followed by green-tea ice cream, we've got the lowdown on the best Japanese eateries and groceries in Paris, all concentrated in the "Little Tokyo" around rue St Anne.
Paris may not be suspected as one of the world's best places to score great falafel, but there are several restaurants here to prove that all wrong. Whether you prefer the Israeli variety, featuring a thick pita filled with falafel balls, crunchy veggies and warm slices of fried eggplant, or the Lebanese or Syrian version with lavash bread and tabbouleh, we've got the lowdown on where to head for the best of these prized Middle Eastern, naturally vegetarian sandwiches.
If you need to hunt down a can of truffles or foie gras to bring back with you on the plane, stake out high-quality produce, cheeses or charcuterie, or find unusual or "exotic" items that are clearly not available at typical supermarkets in the city of light, head to one of these top-rated gourmet Paris food shops.
Many Parisians (especially among the older generations) abstain from buying fresh produce, cheese, meat, and fish from their corner supermarket, and for good reason: traditional Paris food markets count in the dozens, with several open one or more days a week in every neighborhood. Market products are often fresher, more flavorful, and less expensive than supermarket counterparts. It can also be a lot more environmentally friendly since the fresh fruit and produce in particular tends to come from local farms. Find complete directories to temporary farmers' markets in each neighborhood of Paris by reading further.
In addition to dozens of temporary food markets that spring up around the city on select days of the week, Paris counts a number of permanent market streets offering gaggles of fresh, high-quality produce, fish and meat, cheeses and other goodies. These Paris street markets are usually situated on pedestrian-only streets, making them particularly pleasant for a leisurely stroll. Grab a basket or large bag, come with an appetite (you'll want to nibble on baguettes, pastries, fruit or other samples) and get acquainted with these permanent open-air markets, which are highly coveted by Parisians.
Even visitors who aren't terribly food-oriented could not fail to be enthralled by a first encounter with a Paris boulangerie shop window. Despite the recent emergence of Starbucks outlets and "McCafés", Parisian boulangeries-patisseries have managed to withstand globalization and mass production, by continuing to produce quality breads, pastries, and cakes that are eye-catching, sumptuous, and often downright decadent. With one on virtually every corner, you will never go croissant-hungry, but if you're looking for that extra-special baguette or raspberry tart, here's a guide to ten of the best bakeries in Paris.
Paris boasts some of the world's most divine pastries, cakes, and viennoiseriespatisseries in the city here. Take note: the best bakers don't necessarily make the best pastries, and vice-versa!
Being one of the culinary capitals of the world, Paris counts an honorable share of artisan chocolatiers-- cocoa experts who bring genuine artistic flair to their chocolate and concoct the finest in both traditional and eclectic recipes. Dark chocolate is a specialty among French chocolate artisans, as are ganaches: chocolates with rich, creamy centers.
These coveted round biscuits made of almonds, sugar, and egg whites and produced in countless classic and creative flavors have become an emblem of Parisian elegance. Find out where to head for the best macarons in town, including Ladurée and Pierre Hermé.
Paris counts several excellent glaciers (ice cream artisans) who make fresh ice cream and gelato onsite daily, using only a few natural ingredients. Find out where to head for some of the best.  
Thousands of years old, the city of Paris has a deep, tumultuous, and often remarkably dark history. While the tourism and entertainment industries most often present a glossy and cheerful picture of the French capital that gives an illusion of solidity and idyllic beauty, under that shiny veneer lies a wealth of secrets and historical details that are, well, often less than pretty.
From underground networks and passageways hidden from everyday view to sinister, violent-- or just plain weird-- moments in the city's history, we take a look at a fascinating metropolis that has radically changed many times over the course of its existence, wracked by multiple political and cultural upheavals. Scroll down as we count down 10 decidedly strange-- and often disturbing-- facts about the city of light.
Ambling through the bustling, central Parisian neighborhood on the right bank known to locals as Les Halles, best known for its monstrous and uninspiring underground mall complex, nothing immediately suggests that the area once housed the city's largest cemetery. While it started out in the 12th century as a humble graveyard and church with individual headstones, by the late 18th century, the now-defunct Holy Innocents Cemetery (Cimetière des Innocents) was overflowing with the corpses of some two million Parisians. Many were victims of the bubonic plague of the 14th century, piled into mass graves holding up to 1,500 people at a time. 
During the 1780s, the cemetery was deteriorating under terribly unhygienic conditions. Overcrowding and persistent rain made numerous graves wash up. The stench of rotting flesh was reportedly horrible and persistent. Demand for space was so high at certain periods that corpses were sometimes left on the premises as gravediggers eked out spots to bury them.
There are also enduring rumors-- unlikely to all be fictional-- that grave robbers and necromancers frequented the cemetery, digging up bodies to sell to medical schools or attempting to resuscitate the dead with esoteric spells. 
In late 1780, French King Louis XVI closed the cemetery and all other existing cemeteries in Paris, exhuming the millions of corpses and transferring them to the Catacombs.
Read related: Complete Guide to the Paris Catacombs: Practical Info and How to Visit
According to some historians, many of the exhumed bodies were so badly deteriorated that they had decomposed into margaric acid, a fat used to make soaps, candles, and other materials. These fats were collected from Les Innocents Cemetery and other sites in Paris and recycled into products such as these. In a twisted way, this commercializing of death seems fitting, since the area was also home to the historic central trading market, also referred to as Les Halles. That market was also eventually shut for hygiene reasons, transferred to the bland suburb of Rungis south of Paris. 
So when walking around Les Halles or the very pleasant Rue Montorgueil district just around the corner, it might amuse (and/or disgust) you to remember that the area was once a fetid and overcrowded site of decay, and that unspeakable odors once regularly emanated from the place.
Today, only one unassuming relic remains to remind us of the history of the cemetery and its victims: La Fontaine des Innocents, a fountain built during the 16th century and standing on place Joachim-du-Bellay (it formerly marked the defunct cemetery's entrance). 
Read Related: Pictures From 4 Beautiful Cemeteries in Paris
When you picture Paris, what do you immediately imagine? If you're like most people, you probably first see the Eiffel Tower in your mind's eye, and perhaps imagine people strolling down grand, sweeping boulevards like the one pictured above in Camille Pissarro's portrait of Boulevard Montmartre circa 1897. Paris in all its grandeur: chic modernity balanced with hallowed traditions. 
Read related: Ambling, Shopping, and Exploring in Paris' Grands Boulevards Neighborhood
But while we tend to associate these features with Paris in a timeless and stable sense, they're actually very recent, and the product of mass destruction in urban development terms. In the late mid-19th century, Emperor Napoleon III commissioned Baron Georges-Eugene Haussmann to lead a massive renovation project that saw not only the laying of modern infrastructures that continue today-- from sewers to aqueducts-- but also saw the mass demolition of most of medieval and Renaissance Paris.
Read Related: Review of Context Travel's Haussmann and the Making of Modern Paris Tour
Replacing the narrow, constricted streets and predominantly wooden structures of the old "Faubourgs"-- only a few of which survive today, notably in the Marais and around the 10th and 11th arrondissements-- Haussmann and his massive team of architects and builders broke old Paris to construct the massive grands boulevards, enormous squares, sweeping plazas and gardens and typical, gray stone facades that now dominate most of the city.
While the reasons for this massive gutting and renovation of the capital include addressing overcrowding andunhygienic conditions, many historians see the destruction of the old Faubourgs as an essential anti-revolutionary tactic. Destroying the old layout and infrastructures would effectively prevent Parisians from barricading the streets-- a resistance technique that had been used en masse during the 1848 popular revolution known as La Commune de Paris (think Les Miserables).
The bottom line? Next time you're walking around what seems to be a timelessly idyllic Paris, remember that the city has been razed and rebuilt many, many times, and that the image of comforting solidity it tends to project is entirely an illusion. 
Read related: See Paris' Medieval Foundations in This Self-Guided Walking Tour
Next up in our inventory of odd facts about Paris? The likely first-ever photo of a human being was taken by Louis Daguerre (of daguerreotype fame, you guessed it!) on a Parisian street, Boulevard du Temple, in 1838. The small, ghostly figure, barely visible, can be discerned in the lower left corner of the image, waxing his shoes.
Another uncanny aspect of this earliest of images of the city of light? The street was in fact crowded with people and carriages, but due to the quite limited capacities of the daguerreotype camera, which was rather terrible at capturing moving figures, these simply do not show up in the developed image. It would appear that the shoe-shining figure stayed still long enough to be committed to eternal memory. 
Read related features: 
Not far from Les Halles (see #10 on our list for a grim history of the area) is a rapidly gentrifying fashion and market area known to locals as the Montorgueil district. Standing on Rue Etienne-Marcel just across from the eponymous Metro station lies Paris' only standing fortified medieval tower, La Tour Jean Sans Peur.
Named after the Duke of Burgundy, or "Fearless Jean", the tower, the only remnant of the once-grand Palace of the Dukes of Burgundy that stood here, was the site of a grisly assassination in 1407 when "Fearless Jean" murdered his rival and cousin, the Duke of Orleans, on the premises. 
Tourists routinely overlook the tower, but shouldn't, especially if interested in medieval history. You can climb the ornate (and original) spiral staircase to the top. See more details here. 
Read related: Visitors' Guide to the Musee Cluny (National Medieval Museum)
Sadly, because of photographic rights restrictions, I am not able to post photos of a ghostly Parisian apartment near Pigalle that had been abandoned by its owner in 1942 and left untouched for some 70 years. You cansee some great photos of the apartment here over at Messy Nessy Chic's lovely blog. 
Here's the story: A prominent Parisienne named Madame de Florian occupied a sumptuous apartment in the capital, filled with antique furniture and a portrait of her grandmother, Marthe de Florian, by painter Giovanni Boldini (pictured here), but suddenly abandoned it in 1942 after leaving for the South of France. Perhaps she fled the war and the Nazi occupation of the city: no one's really sure of her circumstances.
Read related: Unusual and Off-the-Beaten Track Things to Do in Paris
What is certain: The discovery of her Belle-Epoque apartment, caked in dust and cobwebs and oddly, eerily beautiful, captures the imagination. From old, gilded mirrors and regal furniture to vintage Mickey-Mouse stuffed toys, to the discovery of the aforementioned painting which was valued at over 2.1 million Euros, the apartment is not only a testament to lost time (to wax Prussian): it also shows how vulnerable to time and entropy everything is. The apartment may have been untouched for 70 years, but the incursion of dust, spiderwebs, and sunlight shows in the faded fabrics and furniture cakes in layers of dust. 
In 1940, Paris was stormed by Nazi troops; the image of Hitler leading his troops triumphantly under the Arc de Triomphe symbolically marks the beginning of a dark five-year occupation of the city, and of the French Collaboration. During that time, Nazi propaganda campaigns proliferated, designed to show French locals happy and thriving under Gestapo and Nazi rule. Photos, posters, and Gestapo-sponsored movies filled the city.
This photo circa 1942, taken by French photographer André Zucca, showing smiling, sunglass-donning young Parisiennes enjoying the sun, was possibly used as part of one such campaign, although many speculate that the photographer was simply shooting "what he saw". What we do know is that Zucca, who held a press card issued by the occupying forces and was a collaborator if not an "active" supporter of the Nazis, chose to selectively represent Paris in cheerful ways that certainly occlude the nightmarish realities of the occupation. 
This glossing-over effect of Zucca's photos from the period explains the controversy that arose when around 70 of his color photos like the one above were shown in a 2008 exhibit in Paris at the Bibliothèque Historique (Historical Library). Some critics, including several politicians, decried the exhibit as one glamorizing the Nazi Occupation and failing to show its devastating crimes and consequences, including the persecution of French Jews (see next page). As a columnist at British daily The Independent opined at the time of the controversy:
This is especially remarkable given that only miles away, other Parisians were being rounded up in preparation for their deportation (see next slide). 
Far from the glossy, propaganda-style images of contented Parisians like the one shown in the previous slide, in July 1942 the Gestapo in Paris repurposed a sports stadium in the 15th arrondissement as a massive holding cell to sequester over 13,000 French Jewish citizens, including many children. 
Not many tourists know about the infamous Velodrome d'Hiver, but It was here that thousands of Jews-- stripped of their rights as citizens and arrested-- were detained in squalid and inhumane conditions as they awaited deportation to Nazi death camps elsewhere in Europe. Many, including young children, died from hunger or disease while held here. 
While the stadium was subsequently damaged in a fire and eventually demolished, a memorial garden and statue now stands in the area on the Quai de Grenelle, designed so that no one forgets the atrocities that were committed at the site, as well as at internment camps in the nearby French towns of Drancy, Pithiviers, and Beaune-la-Rolande.
Read related: Museum of Jewish History and Arts in Paris
The Paris metro is a bustling, often unnervingly crowded network, and you're lucky if you ever get to feel at peace in a station or a train. But did you know that several "ghost" stations exist that either went out of use at some point, or never opened to begin with? 
Some of the stations, like the defunct "Victor Hugo" station, simply fell out of use as lines expanded or were rerouted. Others, like the Haxo station, never opened to the public at all, and have no entrances. Still others serve as movie sets, like the appropriately named "Lilas-Cinema" station in the city's northern tip. Those clever Parisians...
See a beautiful slideshow dedicated to the ghostly Metro stations here. There are also, intriguingly enough, plans in the works to transform and repurpose some of the over 100 ghost stations into public pools, nightclubs, and other public amenities. 
On a related note, Paris has an extensive secret network of catacombs that are NOT open to the public, but that are regularly explored and colonized by intrepid types who neither fear the law nor suffer from claustrophia, and have deemed themselves "cataphiles". Underground parties are known to take place in these secret networks, and some of them even hold makeshift theatres and cinemas. Here's an interesting essay on the topic. 
Read related: Complete Guide to the Paris Catacombs: Practical Info and How to Visit
Perhaps because of the radical separation of church and state in France and the spectacular rise of secularism from the mid-20th century onward, people often forget that Paris has a long and legend-filled history as an alleged hub for alchemists, members of masonic lodges, and spiritualists. Many of the legends hold only a grain of truth, or none at all, but some of the lore stands up to historical scrutiny. 
Nicolas Flamel is probably Paris' most famous and celebrated alleged alchemist. His 15th century wood house, one of the oldest in Paris, still stands at #51 rue de Montmorency in the 3rd arrondissement, in close reach of the Centre Georges Pompidou. 
Flamel, a wealthy bourgeois scribe and notary prominent in medieval Paris, became truly legendary in the 18th and 19th centuries, when popular interest in the alchemical arts reached a peak and all sorts of pamphlets and books were printed and attributed to Flamel and other purported masters of the art.
Flamel's great wealth led some to speculate that he gained his riches by successfully achieving the Philosopher's Stone, gaining immortality along with his wife Pernelle. Legend has it that he has been spotted roaming the streets through many centuries. He is so popular as a mythical alchemist that he is mentioned in JK Rowling's Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone.
However, while some no doubt did dabble in alchemical pursuits in Paris, the city's beloved icon probably never did. 
Interest in French freemasonry and masonic orders still reigns today, and has some grounding in historical fact. While it's not the sort of stuff you'll read in the fine literary prose of Dan Brown's novels, several freemasonry organizations still exist in Paris, and there's even a museum dedicated to their history and displaying masonic relics. In France and Paris, the Knights Templar order is inspired by, if not directly related to, the medieval order of knights and monks fighting in the Crusades.
The original Knights Templar order built a massive fortress in central Paris, in the same location where the metro station, "Temple", now stands. Their legacy continues to inspire fictional imagination, as books and movies like The Da Vinci Code illustrate; but these popular vehicles tend to grossly misconstrue the ideologies and histories of such traditions.
One interesting and gruesome fact about the Knights Templars that is grounded in the historical record: 2014 marked the 700th anniversary of the public immolation of Jacques de Molay, the Templars' last Grand Master. While the Knights Templar were once closely affiliated with the Christian Church, their growing power and influence had raised suspicions; they were accused of unspeakable acts of blasphemy, including sorcery.
In 1314, Jacques de Molay was strapped to a stake in Paris and burned alive in public. Which brings us to our final disturbing fact about the city featured here. 
Many assume that the guillotine as an instrument of capital punishment went out of fashion after the French Revolution died down, but this is untrue. France held public executions, including by guillotine-- a form of capital punishment that was in fact considered more humane than others due to the rapid and painless death it inflicted-- into the early 20th century. 
The final public guillotining in the Paris region took place in the summer of 1930 at nearby Versailles, when serial killer Eugène Weidmann was executed in front of the prison. The last public execution carried out in Paris was in 1939:  prisoner and convicted murderer Max Bloch was killed by firing squad outside a city prison. 
While the death penalty wasn't abolished in France until 1981, public executions ceased after 1939. But the end of the barbaric practice was a long time coming-- Paris had been a site of bloody and torturous public executions since the early medieval period.
In fact, what many tourists fail to realize when they visit the lovely city hall (Hôtel de Ville) and its vast plaza in close reach of the Seine River-- now the site of a yearly ice rink and summer music festivals-- is that this very site was once the Place de la Greve, the central place for public executions in Paris until fairly recently. The gallows were once set up there, and victims were routinely drawn and quartered or subjected to other tortures. See Manning Leonard Krull's lively account of the square and its dark history at Cool Stuff in Paris.
I also highly recommend visiting the Musee Carnavalet and its extraordinary collection of artifacts related to the history of Paris, including the revolutionary period, for a deeper understanding of how radically France's penal codes have changed over its history. 
Paris cafes are possibly the most well-known image of the City of Light. The Paris Cafe is more than a place to sip coffee. It is an institution in Paris, it is a magnet for tourists, it is a cultural phenomenon. No trip to Paris is complete without a relaxing, long sit with some fascinating people-watching at a Paris cafe. Here is a gallery is some of the best or most interesting Paris cafe pictures.
Pour your own cup of Joe, take a big gulp, sit back, click on the first cafe Paris picture, and go on a virtual, pictorial tour of Parisian cafes.
​
​
Paris can be an incredibly expensive city. It is, after all, renowned for its luxury goods, gourmet restaurants, opulent palace hotels, and the like. Because of this, you may (logically) assume that seeing Paris on a budget isn't realistic, or would amount to a miserable experience that'd leave you feeling like a pauper.
Luckily, however, that's all a myth: a visit to Paris really doesn't have to break the bank. It's entirely possible to eat well, find clean and decent accommodations, and enjoy discounted and free attractions while still having the sense that you're living it up in one of the world's most gorgeous cities. A (fun) budget Paris vacation doesn't have to belong to the realm of fairy tales, after all: read on to find out why.
Transatlantic airfare has skyrocketed in recent years, and haven't really gone back down despite dropping fuel prices. Train tickets to Paris can also be very expensive.
But don't despair. You can still snag excellent deals as long as you book several months ahead of your trip. Especially if you're traveling from overseas, planning at least six to eight months ahead can be crucial if you want to secure a good fare. It's generally easier to find inexpensive flights and trains from other European destinations in shorter time-frames, however.
When booking a flight, you should also explore airfare/hotel package deals, as these can sometimes offer significant savings.
Taking the Train?  Find current deals at Rail Europe (Book Direct)
Finally, need to book an affordable place to stay? Read reviews, find deals, and compare prices on hundreds of hotels at Trip Advisor.
Click through to see Tip #2 and beyond. 
Nearly everyone fantasizes about visiting Paris in the spring or summer months. But low season has its charms and advantages-- namely much lower air and train fares and cheaper accommodations. 
Consult our detailed, season-by-season tips on when to go to Paris for more information on the pros and cons of traveling to the city of light in a given time of year.
Paris has an excellent public transportation system, and tickets and passes are relatively inexpensive. Hop-on, hop-off bus tours are also fairly accessible options for getting around and touring the city.
But when on a tight budget, public transport can be a fantastic alternative for sightseeing. I recommend using the Paris public bus system — many of the lines have very picturesque routes, and more autonomous travelers may do well this way.
In addition, the city has been bolstering its tramway routes, offering more above-ground options for travel and sightseeing. Consult these resources for budget transport and tour options:
Despite its reputation as a center for luxury, Paris actually prides itself on being accessible. Dozens of free museums, annual events, and other attractions are in store for the budget-conscious Paris visitor. Not to mention that many of the city's most impressive monuments and sites, including Notre Dame Cathedral, Sacre Coeur, or even the banks of the Seine, can be visited free of charge.
You can take in opulent settings without spending a fortune. Try reserving tea at the Ritz Hotel or at the nearby Angelina-- it'll set you back a few dollars to order tea or hot chocolate at these hallowed places, but in exchange, you can soak up a little luxury and still stick to your budget.
Discount cards like the Paris Museum Pass, bus or boat tours and using public transport intelligently can also help immensely. 
Paris may be known for its unusual number of Michelin-star gourmet restaurants, but it also offers plenty in the way of delicious, inexpensive fare. The trick is knowing where to go, since quality and price don't necessarily line up in Paris as you'd expect. You can afford to splurge on one or two nice meals if you manage to nosh on cheap and delicious Paris street food for a few meals, or even stock up on goodies at a local Paris food market and stage a picnic or two. Also check out our guide to student-friendly cafes in Paris for a list of cafes and brasseries offering inexpensive coffee, food and drinks, and, often, free wi-fi to boot.
It may be one of the world's reigning fashion and style capitals, but this doesn't mean shopping in Paris has to cost an arm and a leg!
Consult our at-a-glance-guide to budget shopping in Paris to find out how to make a steal, Parisian-style, on clothes or home items. You might also make time for a pleasant whirl at a Paris flea market-- and come up away with a couple of unexpected treasures in the process.
Paris has hundreds of hotels, and in the budget to mid-range, many are just as comfortable and pleasant as more luxurious counterparts (minus the glitz). Apartment rentals in Paris have become another popular option-- and will save you a lot of money on eating out assuming the apartment comes furnished with a kitchen. If you're really cash-strapped, you might even consider a stay in a Paris hostel or find accommodations by Couchsurfing.
Need to shop around? Read reviews and compare prices on hundreds of Paris hotels at Trip Advisor.
15-Euro cocktails are not uncommon in the French capital-- but if you know where to look, you can enjoy drinking, dancing, and lounging on terraces for much less. Check out our guide to the top Paris nightlife districts to find info on where to head for inexpensive drinks and reveling in the city of light. I especially recommend going out in areas such as Belleville, Menilmontant, Oberkampf and Gambetta for budget-friendly nights. 
If you're feeling adventurous and willing, you can also forgo bars and clubs altogether and have a nighttime picnic along the Seine (pictured above)-- this is a wildly popular activity in the summer. 
Whether you're a first-time visitor to Paris or have been there so many times you can proudly claim it as your second city, figuring out what to do during your stay is rarely an easy task. 
That's why I've put together this complete guide to enjoying all the city of light has to offer, from iconic sights and attractions and day trips, to tasting and touring, nightlife and entertainment, and quirky, offbeat things to do. Click through to see all of my suggestions, or navigate to the topic that interests you most:
1. Most Popular Attractions and Activities: Monuments, Museums, Day Trips, etc.
2. Off the Beaten Track: Unusual and Authentic Things to Do 
3. Exploring and Touring the City: By Theme and Area
4. Shopping on Any Budget: Best Shops,  Boutiques, Gifts 
5. Eating and Tasting: For Gourmets and Foodies
6. Paris After Dark: Where to Go Out for a Nightcap
7. Visiting Paris With Kids: Suggestions for Family Visits
8. Visiting on a Tight Budget: How to Save Euros and Still Enjoy
9. Annual Events and Holidays Not to Miss
Bookmark this comprehensive guide ahead of your next trip, and you'll likely suffer far less from "What to do?"-itus. 
There's a very good reason why some sights and monuments in Paris attract millions of people each year: they're simply outstanding examples of architecture, history, or otherwise well worth the time and the crowds, especially on a first visit.
One can't always claim to be original-- nor is it recommended, since seeing "the big stuff" is part and parcel of enjoying a grand, historic metropolis like Paris. So go forth and make these popular sites and attractions your own.
Ok, so you've already seen the Eiffel Tower, Notre Dame, and the Louvre, and taken a boat tour of the Seine. Is that all there is? Of course not: it'll just take a little more digging, and an adventurous spirit, to get to know Paris off the beaten track. 
These resources offer excellent ways in: from offbeat museums and shops to local havens away from the crowds, bookmark these guides to ensure your next trip to Paris is full of the unexpected. 
Readers frequently ask for recommendations on how to "do" Paris: is it best to draw out a detailed itinerary and follow it to the letter, or just walk around and stumble on unexpected beauty?
My answer is always "aim for a happy compromise between those strategies". First-time visitors will likely want to plan more carefully, but should also allow for some adventurous ambling and spontaneity. Long-time visitors may think they know all their is about a particular area or famous attraction, but might want to take a tour or revisit certain places to learn even more. 
Whatever your comfortable balance between adventure and structure, exploring the city just got easier thanks to these detailed, area-specific and thematic guides to Paris. Whether on foot, bus, or boat, open yourself to all the mystery and depth the fantastic metropolis has to offer, and be receptive to the unexpected!
As a center of the fashion industry and a historic hotbed of creation in all things fashion and design, Paris is obviously a much-coveted destination for shopping.
Whether you're simply in the mood to window-shop or are looking for a specific wardrobe item, vintage piece for your home, or special gift for someone back home, bookmark these fantastic resources to make sure you hit all the right places for shopping in the city. Note: if you're looking for gourmet and food items, click to the next page. 
If you're anything like me, one of the topics you'll have high in mind when visiting Paris is food. Good food, good wine, and where to find it. Luckily, bookmarking and mining these guides will all but guarantee you'll avoid tourist-trap eateries, bad street food, and home in immediately on gourmet experiences you won't soon forget.
Oh, and you don't need to have a generous budget to enjoy good food in this city: another thing to love!
Looking for a great Parisian nightcap? Whatever your budget and preferred style (calm, rowdy, classy, edgy, hole-in-the-wall cool), the city has tons to offer. Mine the resources below to make a fantastic and unforgettable night of it. 
At first glance, parents may be very nervous about trying to bring kids-- especially the youngest ones-- along on a Paris vacation. After all, with its reputation for high art, fancy cuisine, and miles upon miles of prestigious monuments and museums, it doesn't initially strike most as kid-friendly.
Yet behind the snooty-seeming facade, this is a city that in fact offers many fantastic things to do with your youngest of family members. Bookmark these great resources, and never worry again about keeping the kids happy and busy!
When you're on a tight budget, the steep prices often on display in restaurants, shops, or bars in Paris can make you feel like you'll never stay in the black as planned. Yet this doesn't have to be the case. Read on for the best-kept secrets on enjoying Paris to the fullest while saving Euros. 
Finally, irrespective of the date of your planned visit to Paris, there are almost always seasonal events (many free!) on the calendar that'll go a long way in making your visit memorable. Click through these in-depth resources on seasonal events in the city to plan ahead, and not miss out.
A week or more in Paris is ideal if you want to really get a sense of the city's fabulous sights and attractions, quirky neighborhoods and gourmet spots.
But if you're only able to spend a couple of days in the city, or need an introduction to the city's best spots, this two-day self-guided tour of Paris will provide 48 full and exciting hours in the French capital. A weekend in Paris is not impossible. In fact, if you know where you can go, a one-day visit to Paris can leave you with some good memories. 
The itinerary of Paris sights covers both the classic left bank (rive gauche) and the more contemporary right bank (rive droite), where students, artists, and immigrants forge a dynamic diverse culture that takes you a step beyond the traditional postcard views of Paris. 
This itinerary is designed to be flexible: feel free to pick and choose between the options. To make the most of your two days, wear a good pair of walking shoes, and, in winter, dress warmly. 
Since you'll be using public transport quite a bit over two days, consider purchasing a "Paris Visite" transport pass. The two-day pass is reasonably priced and allows for unlimited travel on Paris metro and RER trains, buses, and tramways, as well as access to certain attractions outside of Paris, like the Chateau de Versailles. The pass is available at any RATP metro station ticket vendor.
You'll be visiting at least two museums on this itinerary, so you may want to pick up a two-day Paris Museum Pass. The museum pass gives you unlimited access to the city's national museums, including the Louvre, the Musee d'Orsay, and the Centre Pompidou's Museum of Modern Art. Also, the card has no use-by date, so you can purchase it well in advance.Have a trustworthy map of Paris on hand, because you'll need it to get from one place to the next. I recommend the classic Paris par Arrondissement street map. If you have a smartphone or tablet, you can also easily find and download several free Paris maps and guides.
On the first day, you'll be visiting "classic Paris," and on the second, what we call "Dynamic Paris," the eclectic, more artsy areas.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
Morning: You should ideally start your day early (7:30 or 8:00 a.m.).
First stop: Breakfast at Le Café Mouffetard or Le Pain Quotidien
Directions: Take the metro to Censier-Daubenton (Line 7). Go southwest on Rue Daubenton, and turn right up Rue Mouffetard.
With your stomach is full, your tour of classic Paris can really begin. Continue walking up the winding Rue Mouffetard. You are on one of Paris' oldest streets, today a bustling marketplace. Rue Mouffetard is at a far end of the Latin Quarter, the traditional heart of Paris university and intellectual life.
Take some time to admire the traditional French cheese, wine, and other specialty shops. You may also notice that some of the elaborately painted storefronts on Rue Mouffetard. Some of these date to the 16th century. Also look for quaint passageways and courtyards off the street.
Corners of interest along the way include Place Monge, Place de la Contrescarpe, and Arenes de Lutece (the site of a Gallo-Roman coliseum, replicated during the 20th century)
The Pantheon is a neoclassical-style mausoleum where many of France's great thinkers are buried such as Voltaire and Victor Hugo. Entry is around 7 Euros (free for children under 18). From the Pantheon, a distant Eiffel Tower can be seen.
Walking directions: From the north end of Rue Mouffetard, turn onto Rue Thouin and continue until it turns into Rue de l'Estrapade. Continue until you get to Rue de l'Ulm. Turn right and walk to the Pantheon.
By bus: Take bus #47 from the "Monge" stop near 72 rue Monge, direction "Chatelet." Get off at the "Cardinal Lemoine" stop. Walk five minutes to the Pantheon.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
 
After visiting the Pantheon, look straight ahead down Rue Soufflot and toward the bustling Boulevard Saint-Michel. You will see the Luxembourg Gardens and, in the distance, the Eiffel Tower.
The medieval Saint Etienne-du-Mont Church on Place St-Geneviève is also worth a visit. 
Directions: From the Pantheon, walk down Rue Soufflot. Turn right on Rue Victor Cousin. Continue until you reach Place de la Sorbonne; the university is to your right.
Founded in the 13th century as a religious school, The Sorbonne is one of Europe's oldest universities. Admire its dramatic dome from the plaza, and explore the little streets around it if you wish. Lots of charming old movie theaters and some of the best Parisian bookstores can be found in the area.
Directions: Luxembourg Gardens is located at the bottom of Rue Soufflot on Blvd Saint Michel (RER: Luxembourg). The Medieval Museum is just North of the Sorbonne, at 6 Place Paul-Painlevé.
Le Balzar opened in 1898 and was a favorite brasserie among people like Sartre and Camus. The traditional French fare is a solid bet. Reservations are recommended.
Directions: Le Balzar is located at 49 Rue des Ecoles, near the Sorbonne.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
Your next stop on the tour is the famous Notre-Dame Cathedral. Notre Dame Cathedral is one place you shouldn't miss. The breathtaking 13th-century gothic cathedral is a true masterpiece. Visit the cathedral towers for a fantastic view of Paris.
Walking directions: From Le Balzar, take Blvd. St. Michel north; cross the Seine river, and turn right on Quai du Marche Neuf until you reach Notre Dame.
By bus: Walk to Blvd. Saint Michel and take the 38 or 62 bus north; get off at "Cité". Walk down Quai du Marché Neuf to Notre Dame.
To get from Notre Dame to the Louvre, walk back across the Seine toward Saint-Michel, and take bus 27 from Quai des Grands Augustins (direction St. Lazare). Get off at Quai du Louvre; the museum entrance is just northwest of the stop.
To get to the Musee d'Orsay: Take the RER C at Saint-Michel; direction St.-Quentin-en-Yvelines. Get off at Musée d'Orsay.
The Louvre Museum is the world's most gargantuan and popular fine arts museum. Today, though, take only two to three hours and see one or two wings.
The Musee d'Orsay houses the world's most remarkable collection of early modern art, including Monet, Degas, or Gaugin.
The Champs-Elysees is Paris' most famous avenue. Walking down the majestic, wide avenue is always a thrill, and exploring the surrounding streets is also worthwhile if time allows. 
The Arc de Triomphe crowns the "Champs" at the west end. Emperor Napoleon's tribute to himself features elaborate sculptures and affords great views of the city.
Directions: From the Louvre, take metro line 1 to Champs-Elysees-Clemenceau. From Orsay, Take bus #73, direction "Place de Belgique" to Champs-Elysees Clemenceau.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
Your next stop is the Eiffel Tower. Vous voilà (Here you are) at Paris' most famous monument. Provided you're not too tired from your full day traipsing around classic Paris, try climbing the Eiffel Tower's stairs to the second floor, then take the elevator up to the top for gorgeous views of the city.
Directions: From the Arc de Triomphe, take metro line 6, direction "Nation", to Bir-Hakeim. Walk to Champs de Mars/Tour Eiffel through the underground tunnel.
There are several onsite restaurants at the Tower and even a buffet. Make sure to reserve several weeks to months ahead of your trip to ensure you get a table, as these spots are highly popular.
Or, enjoy the Cafe de l'Alma. To get to the Cafe de l'Alma, take bus line 42 from the "Tour Eiffel" stop, direction Gare du Nord. Get off at the "Bosquet-Rapp" stop. The cafe is at 5 Avenue Rapp. Reservations are recommended.
The Café de l'Alma was once a traditional Paris-style brasserie and a hangout of stars. It was recently renovated and is considered a good, middle-range spot for traditional French and fusion cuisine.
What could be more enchanting than an evening boat tour of the Seine river? Bateaux Mouches is Paris' most well-known tour. In high season, cruises run every 30 minutes until 10:30 p.m. and in low season, the last cruise is at 9:20 p.m.
To get to the boats from the Eiffel Tower, walk 5 minutes to the "Pont d'Iena" bus stop. Take bus #72, direction "Hotel de Ville," get off at "Alma Marceau." Walk to the Bateaux-Mouches dock on Port de la Conference (2-minute walk). And, From the Cafe de l'Alma, walk north down Avenue Rapp, cross the Pont de l'Alma, and turn right onto Port de la Conference.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
To start off day two, you'll first have some breakfast to fuel up. A decent choice in the area you'll be exploring is Aux Delices de Manon. The bakery is located at 129 Rue Saint-Antoine. Buy some buttery morning treats and you're set.
Directions: Take Metro line 1 to the Saint-Paul stop.
From the bakery, walk south down Rue Saint-Antoine; turn left on Rue de Fourcy. The street turns into Rue des Nonnains des Hyères. To your left, you'll see a majestic medieval residence, the Hôtel de Sens. The Marais walking tour begins here.
On this tour of one of Paris' oldest and most intriguing neighborhoods, you'll see the city's medieval roots, explore quiet passageways and grand squares, admire Parisian mansions or hotels particuliers, and see Paris' lively historic Jewish quarter, where gastronomic treats call from all corners.
From Rue de Rosiers, turn left on Rue Vieille du Temple, then a right on Rue Sainte-Croix de la Bretonnerie. Walk 5-10 minutes; cross Rue Saint-Bernard; walk onto Rue Saint-Merri.
To your right, you'll see an imposing, brightly-colored building--this is the Centre Georges Pompidou, which houses a cultural center and modern art museum. You are now in the central neighborhood known as "Beaubourg," the heart of Paris cultural life. Look for the Stravinsky Fountain. This fountain on Rue Saint-Merri is one of Paris' oddest sculptures. Niki de Saint Phalle's "dancing" sculptures of animals and objects were designed as a tribute to Russian composer Stravinsky.
Explore Beaubourg's charming streets: Rue Saint-Martin or Rue Quincampoix. Art galleries and vintage shops abound in the area.
Visit the National Museum of Modern Art's stunning collection at the Centre Pompidou. Works by Picasso, Modigliani, and other modern masters await. The center also has a cafe, art bookshop, cinema, and a public library.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
By this time it will be time to have lunch. Enjoy a meal at Chez Georges Restaurant on the top floor of the Centre Georges Pompidou. The restaurant is a favorite among jet-setters, particularly for its sleek architecture and prime views of the city. Reservations are highly recommended.
Strolling around the Canal Saint-Martin, notice that you are in one of Paris' lesser-known neighborhoods. There is real old-village charm co-mingling with dynamic urban grit here. The area is electrified by the influence of young designers, artists, and musicians who've made the area their stomping grounds.
Directions: Take bus #56, direction "Porte de Clignancourt" from the Centre Pompidou stop; get off at Republique. Turn right on Rue Leon Jouhaux, continue until you reach the canal. Turn left at the canal to get to the spots recommended in the Canal Saint-Martin Neighborhood guide.
Belleville is a gritty and artistically charged area where artists set up shop and immigrant communities contribute to a cosmopolitan charm. The neighborhood is home to a lively Chinatown, a burgeoning artist's quarter and a dizzying array of cultures. Belleville has always been a working-class neighborhood, with immigration generating much of the area's vibrancy. What started in the 1920's with Greeks, Jews, and Armenians led to waves of North Africans, Sub-Saharan Africans, and Chinese immigrants settling there.
Directions: From the canal, walk back to Republique and take metro line 11 to Belleville.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
Your next stop is hilly, arty Montmartre, long revered by artists and intellectuals for its inspiring perspectives and quiet niches. 
Directions: Take metro line 2, "direction Porte Dauphine" from Belleville to Anvers. Walk up Rue Steinkerque until you see an imposing hill with a white basilica atop it—the famous Sacre Coeur.
The steep cobblestone streets, ivy-covered buildings, and charming cafes of Montmartre are one of the reasons why Paris retains its aura of quirky artistic charm. While many places around Montmartre have become tourist traps, plenty of authentic nooks remain. Places to explore include:
What better way to culminate two days in the city of light than a classic dinner and cabaret show at the Moulin Rouge. Your stroll in Montmartre should have put you in the mood for a dream Parisian evening.
To get to the Moulin Rouge, either take the metro line 2 at Anvers one stop to the Blanche station or walk from Anvers north down Boulevard de Clichy. Reservations are a must.An alternative is La Bonne Franquette, another Montmartre bistro and cabaret great for an evening of dining and entertainment.To get to La Bonne Franquette, return to Place de Tertres. The restaurant is just behind the plaza, on Rue des Saules. Its motto is "Love, Eat, Drink and Sing."
As a capital of luxury, designer fashion, and champagne-drenched soirées, Paris may seem inaccessibly expensive for travelers on a tight budget. However, behind the opulent veneer lies a city that offers scores of free attractions and activities, no matter the season. Although you can easily spend a fortune in Paris, it's also possible to spend a reasonable amount and still head home having seen quite a lot. Without further ado, here are the best things to do in Paris on a budget.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
Paris is the world's best city for walkers—not only because most neighborhoods are built for pedestrians (with some caveats), but because the city of light's neighborhoods are dizzyingly varied and fascinating.
Just when you think you know the place back to front, some undiscovered corner beckons you to come explore it. So pack a good pair of walking shoes, gear up with a Paris city street map or comparable smartphone app, and hit the streets for a zero-Euro adventure you won't soon forget.
Most tourists (and first-time Paris visitors) will enjoy exploring popular neighborhoods such as the Marais, Saint Germain-des-Pres, Montmartre, and the iconic Champs-Elysees. However, if you want to go off the beaten path, save time to see the Canal St Martin neighborhood, Belleville, the Butte aux Cailles, and La Chapelle (otherwise known as Little Sri-Lanka).
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
In French, the word "culture" means more than it does in English—it has a broader sense that refers to the universal right for all to be exposed to the arts, sciences, and humanities. To that end, the government funnels significant funds into making "la culture" accessible to all. Many Paris museums offer entirely free admission at all times, while others, including the Louvre and the Musée d'Orsay, are free every first Sunday of the month.
Among the best free museums in Paris are the Museum of Paris History, the Paris Modern Art Museum, the Paris Fine Arts Museum, and Maison de Balzac, the home of the famed 19th-century writer Honoré de Balzac.
Paris hosts scores of fun, inspirational, and entirely free annual events, from cultural affairs like all-night public art installations to artificial beaches implanted on the Seine River each summer. Many of these are concentrated in the spring and the summer months, but each season hosts at least one or two of the festive, budget-friendly happenings.
The Paris Music Festival, which is held every June 21st to mark the summer solstice, is one of the most popular free festivals in Paris, but you also won't want to miss Paris Plages (Paris Beach), where the banks of the Seine are transformed into a beach boardwalk every summer.
Other popular events include Paris Gay Pride in June, Open-Air Cinema at La Villette each summer, Bastille Day celebrations on July 14, and European Heritage Days (Journées du Patrimoine), which takes place over a weekend in mid-September.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
Paris houses many of history's more stunning spiritual relics. Cathedrals and churches that stand today are breathtaking testimonials to a complex heritage of Christianity that dominated in Paris from the fall of the Roman Empire to the French Revolution.
Many of these majestic cathedrals and churches fell into near-ruin in the wake of the Revolution but revived interest in the 19th century brought about their restoration. Many of these are must-see sites no matter your budget—but the fact that entry is free doesn't hurt, either.
Notre-Dame Cathedral, Sainte-Chappelle, St.-Denis Basilica and Royal Necropolis, and the Sacre Coeur Basilica are among the most beautiful cathedrals you can visit while in Paris, but also be sure to check out St. Sulpice Church, a quiet gem near the St. Germain District.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
No matter the season, a long stroll or picnic in one of Paris's many distinctive, elegant parks and gardens is an essential element of any trip to the city. The Jardin du Luxembourg is one of the prettiest (and most popular), but also check out some of the old-fashioned amusement parks like the Jardin d'Acclimation, which kids and parents alike will love. Other noteworthy gardens in Paris include the Jardin des Tuileries near the Louvre, Buttes-Chaumont in north Paris, and Parc Montsouris in south Paris.
 TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
The top of the Eiffel Tower isn't the only place to take in the skyline. Getting a good bird's eye view of Paris can be an exhilarating experience and is in many cases free of charge. Whether you head to the top of Montmartre or the little-known Parc de Belleville, there are plenty of ways to get panoramic views without paying a Euro.
 TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
While climbing the Eiffel Tower itself will cost a pretty penny, you can take in one of the best views of this monumental structure from Trocadéro Square, which is located on the other side of the Seine in Paris' 16th Arrondissement. Trocadéro Square is a great place to people watch, take in the scenery, buy from local kiosks set up on the street, and enjoy an afternoon in the sun. Be sure to stop by the raised platform at the end of the gardens for an excellent shot of the Tower itself.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
Located in the 18th arrondissement near the domed Sacre-Coeur basilica, the Montmartre district was once the home of famous Parisian artists like Pablo Picasso and Salvador Dalí—as well as a variety of other artists and creative folk. 
Similar to New York City's Greenwich Village, Montmartre is a great place to explore on foot. You can take in stunning views of the city, visit local galleries, browse artisanal shops, and even enjoy some free samples from Parisian bakeries and sweet shops—just make sure you don't get trapped in a tourist shop, whose prices will be greatly inflated.
Montmartre is also a great place to get discounted meals and some great deals on clothing and home decor. Plat du Jour menus at most restaurants offer set meals at lower price points, and there are often sales at many of the shops in this district.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
Along with the Eiffel Tower, the Arc De Triomphe is one of Paris' most famous and photographed monuments. Found in the center of a roundabout at the top of the Champs-Élysées, this giant stone archway depicts the names of French victories and generals from both the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars. While you can wander around the outside of this stone monument and take a few pictures for free, there is a small charge to enter the tomb of the unknown soldier from World War I, which rests below the Arc De Triomphe.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
When Montmartre became too expensive for artists to afford the rent there, many of them moved to Paris' 11th arrondissement near Canal St. Martin, a canal that was originally constructed to supply water to the district. Now, this hip neighborhood is home to some of the city's trendiest (and cheapest) restaurants, bars, and shops, but it's also a great place to start a graffiti tour of the city. Many of the walls of the canal itself—as well as buildings throughout the district—are adorned with local artists' spray-painted creations.
With gravesites dating back to early life in the city, the cemeteries in Paris offer a unique chance to see the final resting places of some of the city's most influential historical figures—free of charge.
Climitiere Du Montparnasse is the second-largest cemetery in Paris and is the final resting place of over 40,000 Parisians, including many famous scholars, intellectuals, and artists. Meanwhile, the largest cemetery, Pere Lachaise Cemetery, is where you'll find the gravesite of playwright Oscar Wilde, singer Edith Pilaf, and rock legend Jim Morrison.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
While buying anything will obviously make this destination less-than-free, Rue Mouffetard is a great place for some window shopping. Known as the biggest shopping street in Paris, Rue Mouffetard is lined with produce, fish, cheese, pastry, wine, and meat shops as well as clothing boutiques and art galleries. Many of these food vendors will offer free samples, but they are also one of the best places to buy fresh foods in the city, so you also can save money on your meal costs by shopping here instead of eating out.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
Shakespeare & Company is the name given to independent English-language bookstores that have existed in Paris over the last 100 years. Although the original location on rue Dupuytren closed in 1922 to relocate to a larger space, the Shakespeare & Company location in the 6th arrondissement is still open to the public to this day. The bookstore features new and used book departments, an antique literature section, and even a free reading library where you can skim through any of the books you find in the store.
 TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
Galeries Lafayette is a massive department store in the 9th arrondissement of Paris on Boulevard Haussmann, and its rooftop bar and restaurant both offer stunning 360 views of Paris. Known as Le Cube Bar and Laa Paillote, respectively, these two dining options are accessible through the seventh floor of the main store. While you don't necessarily have to buy anything to go up to the cafe or restaurant, their menus aren't terribly expensive, either, so you can also enjoy a great meal while taking in the view for a relatively low price.
However, Galeries Lafayette isn't just a great place to get a 360 view of the city, you can also attend a free fashion show at this famous department store. Held every Friday at 3 p.m., these free fashion shows demonstrate the latest in Parisian streetwear trends; however, reservations are required in advance to attend these free events, so make sure you sign up online before you depart for your trip.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
Paris offers a variety of free concerts throughout the year, especially at music schools, churches, and town halls across the city.
Hear classical music for free every Saturday at 8 p.m. at the Notre Dame Cathedral as part of the "Auditions du grand orgue" or stop by Église Saint-Roch, the Oratoire du Louvre, the Église Saint-Eustache, or the Église de la Madeleine, which also offer free concerts throughout the year.
Another great way to hear some of the city's newest talent is to visit one of the music conservatories or schools. The École normale de musique de Paris regularly organizes such concerts at the Salle Cortot, the Conservatoire national supérieur de musique et de danse de Paris, and the Conservatoire à rayonnement régional de Paris.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
While it may not be everyone's idea of a good time, the Collège de France offers free lectures throughout the year that are open for all to attend. With topics ranging from mathematics and philosophy to archaeology and sociology—and many of the lectures offered in English—this is a great way to learn a little something on a rainy afternoon in the city.
TripSavvy / Taylor McIntyre
Located in the 4th arrondissement of Paris, the Marais district is home to a number of trendy boutiques, galleries, and gay bars as well as several historical sites and beautiful scenery.
Although perfect for a stroll any day of the week, the streets of Le Marais are closed to cars on Sundays, making it the perfect time to wander around the neighborhood. While you're there, be sure to stop by Le Centre Pompidou, Le Carreau du Temple, and the Place de La Bastille, where the famous prison once stood.
Planning a trip to Paris? If so, getting familiar with the basics of what the city has to offer can greatly enhance your trip. Paris is the political, cultural, and intellectual capital of France, and is also the single-most visited city in the world. It has drawn waves of immigrants, expatriate artists and intellectuals, and global traders for centuries. It boasts a vibrant economy and local culture, rich political and artistic history, an unusual number of fascinating tourist sites and outstanding architecture. Situated at the crossroads of Europe and in close range of the English channel and other strategic places for military and trade, Paris is a true powerhouse in continental Europe.
Read on for a useful overview of the city before you go, with tips on planning your trip, highlights to focus on, eating out and more. From there, you can explore the in-depth guides and articles in our full travel guide to the French capital.
Paris has so much to offer visitors, whether it's your first time or your fourth. Visit its richly endowed museums to see permanent and temporary exhibits, taste French delicacies in its bakeries and world-acclaimed restaurants, and take long strolls through the varied, fascinating streets and neighborhoods of the French capital.
For even more tips on what to see and do during your stay, check out our guide to the top 30 tourist attractions in Paris. On a budget? Find out what to do in Paris for less than 10 Euros a day. Visiting with younger family members? Learn how to enjoy the French capital with the kids.
If you've got a curious gourmet palate or just want to know what all the fuss around French food is about, Paris is an ideal culinary playground. It boasts more Michelin-starred restaurants than most cities combined, famous for its star chefs. But eating well here doesn't have to break the bank-- you can sample a delicious French pastry at a local bakery with some pocket change, or tuck into fabulous Parisian street food-- from crepes to falafels.
If nightlife and fine wine is your scene, there's plenty to enjoy on that front, too. The city's numerous wine bars can be elegant, rustic and fun, or both. Some of the most creative new cocktail bars in Paris are designed like glamorous old speakeasies, and the craft beer and brewery scene, while more recent, is thriving.
For even more on the best places to eat and drink in the city of light, see our full guide to eating out in Paris, with suggestions for all budgets and tastes. You may also want to see our tips on the most family-friendly restaurants in the city.
While you might imagine that finding a place to stay in Paris is simple-- after all, it's the most-visited city in the world and it caters to tourists-- we recommend that you do some careful research before booking. There are, first of all, hundreds of hotels to choose from, but quality can vary quite a bit. It's always best to choose a room in a hotel that's received consistently high ratings from travellers on booking sites such as TripAdvisor and Booking.com.
If you prefer self-catered stays, we recommend that you avoid Air B & B in Paris. Quality tends to be hit and miss. Instead, consider apartment rental sites. Many offer bookings through TripAdvisor. 
As to where to stay in the city, that's a matter of personal preference, and you'll find hotels and lodging options in all of the city's main neighborhoods. If you're after a classic, romantic stay, you can try booking in the Latin Quarter or nearby the Opera Garnier, but expect prices to be steeper in these areas. For a quieter and more authentic stay, there are many excellent hotels in areas preferred by locals, including the Gare de Lyon area, the Rue Montorgueil district and the areas around Metro Montparnasse. 
Need more help making some intelligent choices? Explore the different Parisian neighborhoods you can stay in, and our recommendations on the best mid-range hotels.
Paris is served by three international airports, including Charles de Gaulle and Orly. The easiest way to get from the airport to the city is by public transportation (the RER commuter train system or the Roissybus airport shuttle), but some travelers will prefer airline coach services or taxis.
For full information on getting there and getting around, see our full guide to the airports of Paris. Also read up on whether to take a taxi to or from the airport, and our tips on driving in the French capital.
On average, Paris rates rather poorly for accessibility. While major efforts are underway to improve accessibility in the city, travelers with limited mobility may find the city difficult to get around in.
The Paris tourist office website has a helpful page on how to get around in the city, offering tips on transport and specialist services. 
In addition, the following Paris Metro and bus lines are accessible to people with limited mobility or disabilities:
Metro line 14, RER Line A
Bus lines 20, 21, 24, 26, 27, 30, 31, 38, 39, 43, 53, 60, 62, 63, 80, 81, 88, 91, 92, 94, 95, 96.
Taxis are required by law to accept passengers with wheelchairs.
For more information on accessibility, visit and bookmark this page: How accessible is Paris to visitors with limited mobility?
If you're on a limited budget, fear not. Paris is actually remarkably friendly for tighter budgets, even though it's a center of the luxury industry and gets associated with glamour and "high-end" activities.
For more on making the most of the French capital on a tight or limited budget, see our complete guide to the best free things to see and do in Paris. 
It's always a good idea to get acquainted with the city by learning some basic facts before you go.
Population: Approximately 2.24 million people, according to the 2010 census (around 3.6% of France's total population
Average yearly high temperature: 16 degrees C (60.8 degrees F)
Average yearly low temperature: 9 degrees C (48.2 degrees F)
Average visitors per year: Over 25 million
High tourist season: Approximately March through September, with peaks in the summer. The Christmas season is also especially popular among visitors.
Time zone: Paris is 6 hours ahead of Eastern Standard Time and 9 hours ahead of Pacific Standard Time.
Elevation: 27 meters (90 feet above sea level)
Surface Area: 105 square km. (41 square miles)
Geographical Situation: Paris is located in Central Northern France, at the heart of a region (departement) called Ile de France. The city does not border any major body of water and is relatively flat.
Bodies of water: The famous Seine river cuts through the city center East to West. The Marne river flows through many of the suburbs east of Paris.
Paris is divided into sections North and South of the Seine, more commonly known as the Rive Droite (Right Bank) and Rive Gauche (Left Bank), respectively.
The city, often described as being shaped like a snail shell, is broken into 20 districts or arrondissements. The first arrondissement is at the center of the city, near the Seine river. Subsequent arrondissements spiral out clockwise. You can easily find out what arrondissement you're in by looking for street plaques on corner buildings.
The Boulevard Périphérique, Paris' beltway, generally marks the boundary between Paris and its near suburbs.
Paris boat or bus tours can help you get oriented on a first trip, and also offer a relaxed and pleasant first encounter with some of the city's most important monuments and places.
For boat tours, you can book basic tours & dinner cruise packages online (via Isango). We recommend reading up on popular tour operators, including Bateaux Mouches and Bateaux Parisiens, to find the right Seine river cruise or tour packages.
The Paris Tourist Office has welcome centers around the city, providing free documentation and advice to visitors. You can find maps and pocket-sized guides to Paris sights and attractions at one of the welcome centers.
Many Parisians (especially among the older generations) abstain from buying fresh produce, cheese, meat, and fish from their corner supermarket for a good reason. There are dozens of traditional Paris food markets, with several open one or more days a week in every arrondissement (neighborhood).
Market products are often fresher, more flavorful, and less expensive than their supermarket counterparts. It can also be a lot more environmentally friendly since the fresh fruit and produce, in particular, tends to come from local farms.
The Paris market experience is always colorful and stimulating. Fruit vendors call out the latest bargains in traditional singsong jingles and cries, coaxing you to come to sample a juicy wedge of tangerine or garden tomato.
At the cheese stand, you can solicit an expert opinion on which goat cheese is best paired with the wine you bought. If you're learning French, hitting the local Paris food markets or "farmers" markets can be a great way to practice and interact.
Even if you're staying in a hotel, take a whirl and browse one of the markets. Why not buy a little fresh fruit for breakfast or cheese to go with your baguette?
It is also recommended to head to an open-air or covered market to get stocked up for spring or summer picnics in Paris. You'll be surprised at how fantastic a meal composed of simple, fresh, and inexpensive ingredients can be—and no doubt pleased at having foregone yet another expensive restaurant bill.
Some of the most reputed and pleasant temporary Paris food markets include the Aligre market (12th arrondissement), Bastille market (11th arrondissement), and the Maubert Market and Place Monge Market (both in the 5th arrondissement).
For the health-conscious, an all-organic food market takes over the Marché Raspail (6th arrondissement) every Sunday morning, and the Batignolles market on Saturday morning.
Meanwhile, the St-Quentin covered market near Gare de L'Est (10th arrondissement) is the largest covered market in Paris, which is always full of noisy energy and fantastic food.
Devoted foodies should consider heading to these spots. However, most traditional Paris farmer's markets offer a good level of quality and variety. If you want a quaint look at what's available in the neighborhood you're staying in, find a nearby Paris food market below.
To quickly locate a traditional Paris food market near you, click on the arrondissement (district) links you may be visiting on your trip (scroll down to choose the arrondissement). You can quickly figure out what arrondissement you're in by looking at any street sign, located on corner buildings.
Note that this list does not include the permanent outdoor markets such as those found on Rue Montorgueil or Rue Mouffetard.
