Pictures can help you to visualize the beauty of Prague in the Czech Republic — although there's nothing like visiting it yourselves. A historic city of church spires, red roofs, and bridges,
Prague is topped by a castle that evokes legends and fairy tales. Many of the oldest and most distinctive buildings in Prague are gilded and lit at night, inspiring even amateur photographers to shoot pictures of this extraordinary city.
The following Prague photos provide a small idea of its scenic and cultural attractions for couples.
Prague is basically a walking city, but as you can see from this photo there are other means for touring its landmarks.
Bring a good pair of walking shoes to Prague, ones that are comfortable over cobblestones. You can see Prague on foot, by tram, bus, private or touring car, even romantic horse-drawn carriage.
It's always more valuable to see a city in the company of a guide (especially one who lets you stop to shoot pictures), or with a guide book in hand. At the least, get a map; better Prague hotels will make one available free of charge at the front desk.
The Charles Bridge, spanning the Vltava River, is the oldest bridge in Prague.
Work on the gothic-style Charles Bridge began in 1357. It was completed at the start of the 15th century.
Some 20 religious statues are mounted on the north and south balustrades of Prague's Charles River Bridge.
St. Anthony is in the company of the baby Jesus.
The Charles Bridge is one of the most famous and photographed landmarks in Prague.
Every tourist in Prague ought to cross the Vltava River at least once on the 15th-century Charles Bridge.
The Vltava River bisects the city of Prague, separating Mala Strana and the Old and New Town districts.
From the 13th century through to the Holocaust, Jews were a factor in the civic life of Prague and the city contained several synagogues.
Prague's Jewish Quarter in the Old Town, also called Josefov, contains an ancient Jewish cemetery, museum, and synagogues. Find out more about this Old-New Synagogue.
It was in Prague that the legend of the Golem emerged. Told by Rabbi Loew ben Bezalel to his grandson to calm the youngster's fears that the Jews inside the ghetto would be slaughtered, the Golem was a walking Frankenstein-like monster made out of clay.
Many brilliant and accomplished individuals from this part of the world, including Franz Kafka, Gustav Mahler, Sigmund Freud, Milos Forman, Madeleine Albright were born Jewish.
The Terezin military fortress outside of Prague was used as a transit camp during World War II, deporting Jews to concentration camps elsewhere in Europe. About 80,000 Prague Jews were exterminated in the Holocaust. Fewer than 2,000 live in the city today.
An estimated 200,000 Jews were buried in Prague Jewish Cemetery between 1439 and 1787.
The graveyard inside the Jewish ghetto is not large, but it was one of the few spaces available to the people to bury their dead. Over time, corpses in coffins were layered atop one another.
A church that is among Prague's oldest and most distinctive, the gothic, twin-towered Our Lady before Tyn has stood over the Old Town since the 14th century.
Attuned to both the time and the zodiac, Prague's astronomical clock chimes every hour.
The combined effort of a professor and a clockmaker, the mechanical clock and astronomical dial date to 1410.
Picture yourselves tooling around Prague in this handsome tufted carriage.
Many streets in Prague are pedestrian-only, but you can still see a lot touring from this conveyance.
High on a hill overlooking the city, the buildings that comprise Prague Castle once housed Czech kings, holy Roman emperors, and country presidents.
The no. 1 attraction in Prague, the Castle district includes churches, palaces, gardens, and other structures set along cobblestone streets.
It could take days to see and a lifetime to grasp the historical importance of Prague Castle to the nation. As most visitors only have a few hours, they tend to compress a visit to include witnessing the noon changing of the guards and a visit to St. Wenceslas Chapel inside St. Vitus Cathedral.
The French Gothic-style St. Vitus Cathedral was founded in 1344. Additions in subsequent centuries are in Renaissance and Baroque styles. In addition to beautiful but anonymous stained-glass windows, the Cathedral also contains an exquisite one designed by the famed Czech artist Alphonse Mucha that was installed in 1931.
Nebozizek restaurant stands high above the city, and from the grounds couples can take in sweeping views of Prague.
The leading example of Art Nouveau design in Prague, the Municipal House was completed in 1911.
For lovers of Art Nouveau style, the interior of the Municipal House is nothing short of magnificent. Furniture, lamps, wall paintings, every detail inside this structure is decorated with priceless works by leading Czech artists from the early 20th century.
The Municipal House is home to the Czech National Symphony Orchestra. Its Smetana Hall, named after the well-known Czech composer, is one of the city's main concert halls.
This mural by Czech artist Alphonse Mucha is inside the Mayor's Hall inside the Municipal House.
The vast Municipal House contains many beautifully decorated rooms, two of which bear the handiwork of Mucha. His pictures grace the walls and ceilings, and he was also involved in the selection of lighting, curtains, and furniture.
Civic weddings may be held in the Mayor's Hall, and the building contains both a formal restaurant and a stylish cafe in which couples can celebrate after the ceremony.
How romantic! The Mayor's Hall, where weddings are conducted, is illuminated by light from this window by Alphonse Mucha.
Information space rentals in the Municipal House can help you to decide what room is best for a wedding ceremony and reception.
The café on the ground floor of the Municipal House is also decorated in Art Nouveau style.
An elegant space to have breakfast or take tea, the Municipal House Café opens its doors in warmer weather and permits alfresco dining.
If you love diamonds, go to New York, Antwerp, Israel, London or Mumbai. But if you love garnets, the place for buying them is in the Czech Republic.
Find out more about buying Czech garnets.
Creating realistic marionettes and performing with them in puppet theaters has a long history in the Czech Republic.
Characters may be based on historical or literary figures, fairy tale creatures, everyday people, or original themes.
The 1920s and 1930s were considered the golden age in Prague, and it was a time that Cubism flourished.
Even the building that houses the Czech Cubism Museum, known as the House at the Black Madonna, incorporates blocky, faceted Cubist elements in its design.
The restaurant at the Czech Cubism Museum features design elements inspired by the Cubist movement.
In warmer weather, patrons of Grand Cafe Orient can order their sandwiches and sweets, beer and soft drinks on the second-floor balcony.
It wasn't long after World War II that the Communists took over the country, and their iron rule lasted until the "Velvet Revolution" of 1989.
This fascinating museum offers a written narrative that visitors can read as they move through the rooms dedicated to different aspects of life under the Communists including work, food shortages, paranoia and spying on neighbors, socialist realism art and other propaganda.
Toward the end of the museum there is a small room where a video loop runs, explaining the situations and protests that led up to the Velvet Revolution, when the unpopular Russians left the country without a shot being fired.
Find out more about the Museum of Communism in Prague.
A bright light in the eyes, a fabricated dossier of crimes, unwarranted suspicions created an Interrogation Room atmosphere that made Kafkaesque paranoia real.
The most chilling section of the Museum of Communism is the interrogation room, where citizens accused of real and bogus crimes were questioned and sentenced without trial or mercy.
Find out more about the Museum of Communism in Prague.
The Dancing House building, designed by Frank Gehry and opened in 1996, is the newest landmark in ten centuries of Prague architecture.
Dubbed the "Fred and Ginger" building, the structure pays homage to the swank and graceful dance team of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, who appeared in many Hollywood films of the 1930s.
As the sun sets behind Prague Castle, the city lights up at night, turning into a place of romance and beauty.
  Touring Car in Prague  
  Charles Bridge Entrance  
  St. Anthony of Padua Statue  
  Tourists on Charles Bridge  
  Vltava River Picture  
  Prague Synagogue Picture  
  Prague Jewish Cemetery  
  Our Lady before Tyn Prague Church  
  Prague Astronomical Clock Photo  
  Your Transportation Awaits in Old Town Square  
  St. Vitus Cathedral  
  View of Prague  
  Municipal House Picture  
  Alphonse Mucha Mural  
  Mucha Stained Glass Window  
  Municipal House Cafe  
  Buying Czech Garnets  
  Czech Marionettes  
  Czech Cubism Museum  
  Grand Cafe Orient Balcony  
  Museum of Communism Poster  
  Interrogation Room  
  Fred and Ginger Dancing House Building  
  Prague at Night Picture  
Prague is considered to be one of the most beautiful cities in the world, and for good reason. Millions of visitors flock to the Czech Republic’s capital each year to take in the city’s hundred spires, explore the expansive Prague Castle, and enjoy a few pints of the country’s famous pilsners. Whether you’re in Prague for a relaxed weekend or to do some epic sightseeing, it’ll be tough to do and see everything in 48 hours, but here are a few ideas on how you can make the most of your time.
9 a.m.: The first order of business once you land at Prague’s Václav Havel airport will be getting yourself to the city center. You can grab a taxi, ride-share, or use public transportation. Prague taxi drivers are notorious for ripping people off and using a ride-share app such as Uber or Bolt will get you a much better deal. If you'd rather take a taxi, use one of the official airport taxi services like FIX Taxi or Taxi Praha. They have set mileage prices and can be reserved online. If you’re on a budget and don’t have a ton of luggage, there is also a public bus that goes directly from the airport to a metro line. It’ll take roughly 30 minutes to get to the city center from the airport via public transportation depending on the bus and metro schedules, so the best option is to purchase the 90-minute ticket for 32 Czech koruna.
10 a.m.: After dropping your bags off at your hotel and freshening up, you’ll likely be hungry. Café Savoy is one of the most beautiful breakfast spots in the city, but it’s very popular so it’s a good idea to book a table in advance. If you had a long flight and are in the mood for something more casual, Coffee Room makes excellent avocado toast and smoothie bowls.
11 a.m.: Now that you’ve filled your stomach, it’s time to start exploring Prague. Dive right in by heading straight to Old Town Square. The gothic spires of the Church of Our Lady before Týn will be instantly recognizable but are no less impressive in person. You’ll find the city’s famous astronomical clock just across the square. This medieval clock is the oldest of its kind in the world, so make sure to find your way there to watch it chime on the hour.
2 p.m.: Continue your sightseeing adventure by winding through the streets of Old Town to Prague’s Jewish Quarter, also known as Josefov. Take your time exploring this historic area; there are many sites worth visiting. Prague’s Old Jewish Cemetery is the oldest remaining Jewish cemetery in the world and is included as part of the city’s Jewish Museum. The Old-New Synagogue should also not be missed. Prague’s Jewish Quarter is the birthplace of famous novelist Franz Kafka so you’ll likely encounter several references to him in this part of town, including a memorial to him on Dusni Street.
4 p.m.: You’ll probably be pretty tired by this point, so take some time to relax in one of Prague’s beer spas. Enjoy unlimited beer straight from the tap while you sit back and soak in an oak tub filled with natural extracts and ingredients from the beer-making process. There are several locations throughout the city that provide this unique bath experience including two branches of the Original Beer Spa.
If you’ve got a bit of energy left and would rather keep sightseeing, hop on a tram or metro to Prague’s “other” castle, Vyšehrad. Wander around the complex, which dates back to the 10th century, and enjoy the views from the Hospudka Na Hradbach beer garden located within its walls. You’ll also have great views of Prague Castle and the Vltava River from the other side of the complex.
6 p.m.: Czech food should definitely be on the agenda for dinner since it’s your first night in Prague. While there are many restaurants in the Old Town area serving traditional Czech cuisine, they are can be crowded and are often very overpriced. Try to find a restaurant that looks good on a quiet side street away from the crowds or make a reservation ahead of time to enjoy the cozy, underground atmosphere at Krčma. Sample Czech specialties like goulash, fried cheese, or svíčková, a dish that consists of marinated sirloin beef and bread dumplings in a thick cream sauce. Booking a Prague food tour might be a good option if you want to taste a bunch of different dishes and learn more about the local cuisine.
8 p.m.: Make your way to the Prague Beer Museum after dinner to sample some of the country’s best microbrews. There are 30 craft beers on tap, giving visitors the opportunity to try regional beers from small breweries around the country without having to leave Prague.
If you’re more of a wine drinker, check out one of Vinograf’s locations. Each one over 350 bottles and at least 35 types of wine served by the glass and over 350 bottles, providing an enormous selection to choose from. This is also a great opportunity to try wine from the Czech Republic and the sommeliers can tell you all about the country's winemaking culture.
11 p.m.: Prague is known for its wild nightlife so there won’t be any shortage of places to visit late at night. Clubbing fans will be delighted to learn that the city is home to Central Europe’s biggest music club: Karlovy lázně. It has five floors, each playing a different style of music so you can dance the night away with whatever genre of music you are feeling in the moment.
Jazz Dock is a great option for lovers of live music or those in the mood for something a little more relaxed. It sits right on the Vltava River, and it’s large glass windows offer a different perspective on the city at night.
8 a.m.: Get up early, grab a quick breakfast from your hotel or a bakery, and head straight to Prague Castle to beat the long lines and crowds. You will have to go through a security check to get into the castle complex so check ahead of time to make sure you aren’t carrying any of the forbidden items. Prague Castle holds the Guinness World Record for the largest ancient castle in the world so be prepared to spend some time here. The ticketed parts of the castle don’t open until 9 a.m. but the complex itself is open from 6 a.m. so there is still plenty to see if you get there early.
10 a.m.: Once you’re done at the castle, wander down through the streets of Malá Strana, which is also known as Lesser Town. It is one of the oldest neighborhoods in the city and the streets are dominated by colorful Baroque architecture. Another colorful attraction you’ll find in this neighborhood is the graffiti-covered John Lennon wall. While visitors are no longer allowed to add their own contribution to this famous piece of art, it’s still a great place for taking photos.
If you didn’t get enough of Kafka the day before, a museum dedicated to the author is not far from here. Even if you’re not interested in Kafka, making the trip over to the museum is worth it to see the unusual statue of two men relieving themselves outside by renowned Czech artist David Černý.
12 p.m.: Lokál U Bílé kuželky in Malá Strana is a great spot to grab lunch. They serve casual Czech cuisine with Pilsner Urquell beer straight from the tank. This beer travels the shortest distance to your glass so it’ll be some of the freshest you’ll find in Prague. If you’re not up for day drinking but still want to enjoy this Czech specialty, you can order a slice or beer foam: options that have a higher foam to beer ratio.
2 p.m.: The sightseeing continues with a stroll across the historic Charles Bridge. Construction began on this masterpiece way back in 1357, and today, it is one of the most popular attractions in Prague. After spending some time on the bridge admiring the views and replica statues, hop on the metro at Staroměstská and get off at Muzeum. This will put you right in front of the impressive National Museum (Národní muzeum) and at the top of Wenceslas Square (Václavské náměstí), which has been the site of many famous demonstrations.
4 p.m.: If the weather is nice and you’d rather be outside than admiring the 14 million items in the National Museum, make your way to either Náplavka Riverbank or the Letná Beer Garden. At Náplavka, located on the bank of the Vltava, you’ll be able to enjoy a drink and some food on one of the boat bars. If you'd rather look at the water than be on it, grab something to go and sit on the edge of the river, dangling your feet over the water. Letná Beer Garden, in Letná Park, on the other hand, provides panoramic views of Prague from above. Either option is great for a relaxing afternoon in Prague and and both are popular with the locals.
6 p.m.: After enjoying some time outside, grab a quick dinner and head to one of Prague’s famous black light theater performances. Black light theater is a unique performance style that involves using optical illusions created with UV lights, bright costumes, and a black backdrop to tell a story through movement and sound. It’s become increasingly popular in the Czech Republic in recent years, with many black light theater companies based in Prague. There is no dialogue in traditional black light theater performances so there’s no need for translation. 
10 p.m.: Top off your trip to Prague with a glass of absinthe. There are over 100 kinds of this legendary beverage just waiting to be tried at Absintherie. The highly-trained staff will introduce you to the proper way of serving and drinking absinthe so that you get the full experience. Hemingway Bar also has a sizable absinthe list. This well-known bar is famous for its range of creative cocktails making it a great option for absinthe newbies. After enjoying a few drinks, take a late-night stroll along the Vltava River for one last look at the stunning views of Prague Castle lit up and to say your farewells to beautiful Prague.
  Day 1: Morning  
  Day 1: Afternoon  
  Day 1: Evening  
  Day 2: Morning  
  Day 2: Afternoon  
  Day 2: Evening  
“Prague won't let you go,” notable author Franz Kafka once said. “The little mother has claws." Kafka one of the Czech Republic’s most well-known literary figures, and once called Prague his home. His words truly sink in to most visitors who come to the Golden City, charmed by the 13th century buildings, warmed by the hospitality shown by locals, and refreshed from the beers they consume. But there’s so much more to Prague than most guidebooks will give travelers.
As with most large cities, there is something for everyone in Prague. Music, art, dining, and museums are found all over the main city center, and are often enjoyed by locals just as much as visitors. It’d be easy to spend a month or even a year exploring this beautiful city, but for those short on time, the following activities provide a well-rounded look into the culture of the Czech Republic’s capital city.
Visitors will find Prague’s National Museum sitting at the top of Wenceslas Square. This Czech neo-renaissance building houses a collection of nearly 7 million items, ranging from Medieval art and texts to ethnographic pieces from around the world, and one of the most extensive collections of antique coins in the country. A series of renovations is planned to help restore the museum back to its former glory, so exhibitions may be sparse at times, but the permanent collection provides a great introduction to Czech history and culture, especially in relation to the events of Prague Spring in 1968. Make sure to get a timed ticket for the Dome, which offers special access to the top of the building and a close-up look at the stunning glass dome above the main foyer of the museum.
Located next to Prague Castle, Petřín Hill is one of the most popular places in Prague to see the city from above. A leisurely hike will get you there from the bottom of Malá Strana, but the quickest way to get to the top is by funicular. The cost of the funicular is the same as a ticket for a one-way public transportation ride (so it’s free if you have an unlimited day or multi-day pass), and takes about 10 minutes to get through all three stops. Once at the top, visitors can stroll through the park, or climb Petřín Tower, which resembles a mini Eiffel Tower and provides an even higher view of the city.
 Courtesy of Original Beer Spa
Czechs love to treat themselves with various spa treatments, but for those looking for an enhanced experience, a trip to a beer spa is worth seeking out. Here, visitors warm themselves up in a tub resembling a wooden barrel, and spa attendants add beer ingredients to the water (typically malt, yeast, hops, and other herbs). Guests don’t actually bathe in fermented beer, but they are provided with unlimited beer to drink, usually from a tub-side tap. A moment in the sauna and a nap in a straw bed concludes the experience; massages, snacks, and gifts are usually offered for an additional fee. There are a few spas to choose from throughout the city; check out Original Beer Spa or Beer Spa Bernard.
 Courtesy of Karlovy Lázně
Prague’s club culture reputation precedes itself, and while it’s certainly a destination for bachelor and bachelorette parties and other late-night fans, the dance halls are really worth checking out for nightlife entertainment of all kinds. Karlovy Lázně is one of the best clubs in Prague for exactly that reason: it’s Central Europe’s largest nightclub, with five floors of dance space. Each one is dedicated to a different kind of “sound”: mainstream hits, dance music, oldies, hip hop, and chill sounds, so there’s something for every kind of partier. Their VIP packages offer guests a taste of the high life for less money than you’d spend on bottle service elsewhere. This Old Town venue (located on the east side of Charles Bridge) opens every day in the early evening, and remains open until 5 a.m.
Stroll along the Vltava river above Vyšehrad, and you’ll come across one of Prague’s newest foodie areas, Náplavka. Locals come here for an alfresco meal or drink, and walk along the barges docked there. Each one is home to a floating bar or restaurant, where guests can grab a pint to go and enjoy the scenery. The Náplavka Farmer’s Market also offers visitors the chance to sample treats from local Czech gastronomical creators; jams, honey, fruit liqueurs, sweets, and sausages are just some of the goods on offer. In the warmer months, it’s common to find small bands providing entertainment to the people passing by, so head here if you’re looking for free entertainment, and a variety of places for your tastebuds to explore.
Every hour from 9 a.m. to 11 p.m., one of the oldest, still-functioning astronomical clocks in the world puts on a show in Prague’s Old Town Square. It’s easily one of the most popular sites for travelers in the city. Dating back to 1410, the clock has a dial measuring 8.2 feet in diameter, various zodiac and biblical symbols, and large mechanized figurines (including models of the Twelve Apostles). The show only lasts about a minute, leaving you enough time to experience it for yourself before exploring the rest of what Old Town has to offer.
Charles Bridge has connected Prague’s Old Town and Little Quarter since the 12th century, when its construction was commissioned by its namesake: Czech king and Holy Roman Emperor Charles IV. Today, it’s one of the most frequented attractions in Prague, as its path leads straight to Prague Castle. Walkers are flanked by 30 replicas of 17th-century saintly statues (rubbing the plaque below St. John of Nepomuk is said to bring good luck). The two towers at either end of the bridge are also open to visitors who wish to climb to the top and view the city from a different vantage point. For the least crowded experience, visit early in the morning (perfect for sunrise photos), or late in the evening when the city is quiet and still.
History meets brewery at the Břevnov Monastery Brewery, considered by many to be the birthplace of Czech beer. The monastery itself was founded in 993, and the brewery was in operation until about the late 19th century. The facility was restored in 2011, and now provides a more technologically advanced method of brewing beer, sans monks. An attached restaurant with a beer garden provides a tranquil area for tastings, and tours of the brewery are offered for a more in-depth look at the beer making process, history, and culture associated with Břevnovský Benedict.
 Courtesy of Cukrář Skála
Most visitors to Prague will be tempted by trdelník stands (“cinnamon chimney” pastries filled with sweets like ice cream or nutella) found on almost every corner, but for a taste of traditional Czech sweets with a contemporary twist, seek out Cukrář Skála, located down a short street just off of Náměstí Republiky. Inspired by the recipes of his father, owner Lukáš Skála creates desserts and baked goods that are almost too pretty to eat. Cream rolls, cheesecakes, bon bons, breakfast pastries, and more, are displayed in a glass case while bakers busily prepare more desserts in the background. Pick up one to-go, or sit for a moment with a coffee in the cafe’s courtyard.
Bibliophiles, art lovers, history fans, and everyone in between will appreciate a visit to the library of the Strahov Monastery, located just behind Prague Castle. While the monastery itself is worth exploring, the library, home to over 200,000 books, manuscripts, and lithographs, is a magnificent example of Baroque architecture and design. It’s comprised of two sections: the Theological Hall, which contains mostly biblical translations and theological writings, and the Philosophical Hall, a two-story room evocative of a personal library from a fairytale castle. A “cabinet of curiosities” connects the two areas, featuring small exhibits of natural science, art, and architecture. Tours of the venue are available each day; a walk around the grounds provides views of Prague, including Prague Castle and St. Vitus Cathedral.
Czechs drink more beer per capita than any other country, and while in Prague, it’s not uncommon for a pint of beer to cost the same price (or less) as a bottle of water. While there’s no shortage of pilsner to go around in the city, grabbing a seat at a communal table within Letna’s beer garden (next to the Letenský Zámeček restaurant) is one of the best ways to get acquainted with Czech beer culture. The park, located on the northern side of the city, offers a panoramic view of the city, which you can enjoy while sipping on Pilsner Urquell, Master’s amber lager, Kozel’s dark lager, or Gambrinus. The park itself is large and offers a quiet respite from the busy city, as well as a way to walk off the many pints you may consume.
Not many associate the Czech Republic with a thriving wine scene, but Czech wine makers are aiming to change that. Prague itself is home to several small vineyards, such as St. Clare’s Vineyard at Troja Chateau, and Prague Castle’s St. Wenceslas’ Vineyard, one of the oldest in the country. You can also find wine from Southern Bohemia and Moravia in many restaurants. One of the best places to expand your wine education is at Vinotéka U Mouřenína, which hosts wine classes and offers one of the best selections of Czech wines in the city.
 Courtesy of Cyberdog
In the future, we’ll all be served by robots. Or at least, that’s what Czech artist and engineer David Černý seems to think. He helped design the robotic bartender at Cyberdog, a space-age restaurant and pub in Prague 13. Guests order their meals and drinks using an app, and a mechanical arm grabs a wine glass, procures the bottle, and pours the drink with amazing precision. The building itself is also out-of-this-world in design; guests sit in an elevated, cube-like structure, and their drinks are delivered to them from an overhead conveyor belt system that really makes you feel like you’re drinking in the future.
Czech art is typically underrepresented in galleries elsewhere, so it’s worth getting acquainted with while you’re in Prague. One of the best places to do so is at Museum Kampa, located on Kampa Island in Malá Strana. This intimate museum is home to one of the best collections of art from modern abstract artist František Kupka. Contemporary exhibitions are also held year round, with a focus on artists from marginalized communities. The outdoor sculpture garden is free to walk through, and the park outside of the museum is perfect for relaxing along the Vltava river after a long day.
Courtesy of Café Savoy 
Pork and bread dumplings, goulash, and beef sirloin in cream sauce are the typical Czech dishes most visitors encounter while dining in Prague, but for a dish you likely won’t get anywhere else (at least, for dinner), order ovocné knedlíky at Café Savoy in Malá Strana. These fruit dumplings are made with seasonal fruit encased in fluffy dough, and topped with melted butter and freshly ground gingerbread. The cafe itself makes you feel as though you are stepping back in time, with its marble-top tables and beautiful ceiling work. A full menu of Czech classics is available if sweets for dinner doesn’t appeal; Café Savoy also is a good pick for brunch, as it opens earlier than most other restaurants on the weekend.
A visit to the grounds of Prague Castle is part of most trip itineraries to the City of Spires. Walking around the exterior areas of the political complex is free, with small fees to enter St. Vitus Cathedral, Golden Lane, and a few gardens, but to get a real sense of Czech history and politics, take a tour through the castle's government apartments. You’ll learn about the Czech Republic’s tumultuous political history, from the formation of Czechoslovkia in 1918, to Prague under Communism. You'll also learn how the parliamentary system works alongside the president today. The climb uphill from the west side of Charles Bridge can be challenging; consider taking trams 22 or 23, which let off at Pražský Hrad, for easier access.
A visit east to Vinohrady shows visitors Prague's more residential side. This area was formerly used as the royal vineyards in the 14th century, but has since become a historic working class neighborhood, with early-20th-century architecture and a sophisticated, Parisian feel. Just east of the main railways station is Riegrovy Sady, a hilly park with grassy knolls, historic sculptures, and a small selection of cafes and restaurants. It faces the Vltava river and offers a clear view of Prague Castle and Malá Strana, framed by leafy trees. It’s a romantic spot for sunset views over the city, and you’ll find a nice mix of locals and travelers enjoying the ambiance.
Souvenir shops are abundant in Old Town, but few can claim a history dating back to the 13th century. Located a short walk from Old Town Square and Wenceslas Square, Havelský Market is a pedestrian area lined with stalls selling all kinds of goods, like marionettes, leather goods, painted postcards, and pottery. It’s also a great place to pick up fresh fruits, vegetables, and snacks from grocery vendors. Head to this area towards the end of your trip if you’re looking to pick up distinctly Czech items for friends and family back home.
The arts have always been an important part of Czech identity, and Prague has built itself up to be one of the most active cultural cities in the world. For over 130 years, the National Theatre has been at been at the center of the cultural scene. Opera, dance, theatrical performances, and concerts are regularly shown; more contemporary works are performed at The New Stage, a modern theater next door that is also part of the National Theatre system. This magnificent building, designed in the National Revival style, is especially beautiful when lit up at night; walk along Legions’ Bridge for the best view.
One of Prague’s most popular cultural sites, the Jewish Quarter just above Old Town Square will provide you with a thorough understanding of Jewish history in the city. It dates back to the 10th century, but periods of religious persecution, physical destruction, Nazi invasion, and the effects of Communism, have left little of the original area. Today, visitors can see a selection of synagogues and significant historic sites, including the Old Jewish Cemetery, through the Jewish Museum’s extensive system, which offers in-depth tours of the area.
  Learn About the Czech Republic's History  
  Take a Funicular to Petřín Hill  
  Bathe in Beer Ingredients  
  Dance Until the Early Morning  
  Sample Artisan Foods Along the River  
  See One of the Last Functioning Astronomical Clocks  
  Cross Over a Bridge of Saints  
  Sip Beer in a Monastery  
  Devour Czech Sweets  
  Expand Your Love of Old Books  
  Cheers Your Beer With Czechs  
  Get to Know Czech Wine Culture  
  Grab a Drink Poured by a Robot  
  Learn About Modern Czech Art  
  Eat Fruit Dumplings for Dinner  
  Get a Better Understanding of Czech Politics  
  Watch the Sunset on a Grassy Knoll  
  Shop for Czech Souvenirs  
  Watch a Performance at a Historic Theater  
  Take a Tour of Josefov, the Jewish Quarter  
You'll want to see everything when you travel to Prague. Tour the city by organized tour bus, with a map on foot, on the Vlatva River by boat, or romantically by horse-drawn carriage.
This photo tour takes you through some of the interesting sites of Prague that aren't included in the other photo tours on this site.
The National Museum in Prague's New Town is located on Wenceslas Square. It hosts geological, paleontological, and zoological exhibits. In addition, it displays a collection of antique Czech puppets.
Most visitors enjoy the exhibits at the National Museum, but it isn't for everyone. While the geological collection is interesting, other exhibits lack popular appeal.
The interior of the National Museum contains a beautiful red-carpeted stairway and hall. Concerts are sometimes held here.
The National Museum is open 10-6 May through September and 9-5 October through April. Usually open daily, it is closed the first Tuesday of every month. Additionally, visitors pay no entry fee the first Monday of every month.
No. 22 Golden Lane was actually Franz Kafka's sister's house, though he is known to have stayed and written there. This cheerful blue house is just one of the many colorful dwellings along Prague's Golden Lane, which is tucked behind Prague Castle. Stroll along the Golden Lane to capture some charming photographs, or shop for Czech souvenirs.
On Charles Bridge, there is a place on the statue of St. Jan on which visitors can place their hand to make a wish. Choose Queen Sofia, and keep a secret of your choice untold forever; choose the image of Jan being tossed off Charles Bridge, and you'll return to Prague.
The German Embassy is located in Prague's Lesser Quarter, or Mala Strana. The gorgeous building has gardens around the back. In these gardens you'll find a sculpture by David Cerny of a golden Trabant that pay tribute to the thousands of East Germans who slipped into West Germany via the German Embassy in Prague, leaving behind their East German cars.
An additional piece of trivia: David Cerny's sculptures can be seen in various locations throughout Prague. He has left his mark on the Zizkov TV Tower by attaching to it crawling babies. In another area of Prague, a man hangs by one hand from the roof of a storefont.
Climb the steps to the Petrin Tower to get great panoramic views of Prague. This tower, a copy of the Eiffel Tower (but one-fifth of the size) is made from recycled railroad tracks.
Petrin Tower is located in Petrin Park. Petrin Park contains the Mirror Maze (it is just what its title suggests - a maze of mirrors), the Hunger Wall (a 15th century project to employ Prague's poor), and the Stefanik Observatory.
A tour of the Municipal House is sure to delight. This Art Nouveau beauty is detailed with mosaics, curved glass, sculptures, stained glass, and other artistic touches throughout. Leading turn-of-the-century Czech artists collaborated on designing parts of the Municipal House in the beginning of the 1900's. The Smetana Hall is home to Prague's Symphony Orchestra. The City Mayor's Hall features work by Alfons Mucha. You can even find refreshment at the Municipal House at the French restaurant or Czech pub.
Built during 1992-96 by Frank Gehry and Vladimir Mulunic, the Dancing Building is a piece of controversial Prague architecture that the locals still aren't sure about. However, the delightful design of the building, nicknamed "Fred and Ginger" for the way the building mimics the forms of a dancing couple, is usually a prime object of photography for tourists.
Celeste Restaurant and Bar, formerly La Perle de Prague, housed on the top two floors of the Dancing Building, is a French restaurant that that is proud to offer diners panoramic views of Prague and an extensive wine menu. Stop in for a drink or dinner, or simply marvel at this building from afar.
Just 20 km outside of Prague, Karlstein Castle is an easy and popular destination for Prague tourists. Royal artifacts (like the Wenceslas Crown), ancient artwork, and portraits of Czech rulers can be seen here.
  National Museum, New Town Prague  
  National Museum Interior, New Town Prague  
  No. 22 Golden Lane, Kafka's Sister's House, Prague  
  Make a Wish on the Charles Bridge  
  German Embassy, Lesser Quarter Prague  
  Petrin Hill Observatory, Petrin, Prague  
  Municipal House, Old Town Prague  
  The Dancing Building, New Town Prague  
  Karlstein Castle, Southwest of Prague  
These free Prague activities and attractions will give you an opportunity to see the best parts of the city without spending a dime. Many of the city's best sights can be seen and experienced for free, and if you're traveling at the right time, you may be able to take advantage of free cultural experiences, too. If you're on a budget, consider exploring the free side of Prague.
Taylor McIntyre / © TripSavvy
Old Town Square, located in Prague's Old Town, is the ultimate free attraction in Prague. Not only is it home to some of Prague's most famous buildings, it is also the location of seasonal festivities like Prague's Easter market and its Christmas market. Year round, visitors can listen to buskers, take a rest on one of the benches around the statue of Jan Hus, and get some great photos of the buildings on the square.
Prague's astronomical clock draws crowds year-round ​and is a great free activity for kids. On the hourly strike, watch the clock's curious characters parade past.
Taylor McIntyre / © TripSavvy 
Wenceslas Square is another great free Prague attraction. Lined with shops, hotels, and restaurants, Wenceslas Square is the heart of New Town. Seasonal markets are set up on this square for special holidays. The National Museum, which is free the first Monday of every month, stands on one end of the square, and historic hotels make their presence felt. Well-lit at night, Wenceslas Square is an ideal location for people watching.
Charles Bridge connects Old Town with Mala Strana. If you're looking for something free to do in Prague, traverse Charles Bridge and examine its statues, all of which are significant in their own way.
While on Charles Bridge, you can also listen to musicians and admire the artwork. Take your turn making a wish at the statue of St. Jan.
For a small fee, you can walk up the stairs to the Charles Bridge tower. There you will find yourself confronted with sweeping views of Mala Strana, Prague Castle, and parts of Old Town.
It's free to enter the Prague Castle Grounds, even though you'll have to purchase tickets to see any part of Prague Castle's interior. At Prague Castle, you can watch the the changing of the guard or visit the Prague Castle gardens for free. 
St. Vitus Cathedral, the Czech Republic's most important religious structure, is free to enter. Visitors should prepare for long lines - St. Vitus is one of Prague's most popular sights!
Josefov, Prague's Jewish Quarter, is free to tour. Identify synagogues, take a peek at the Old Jewish Cemetery, and find the monument to Franz Kafka. You can also walk down Maisalova Street and catch glimpses of the Ceremonial Hall and the Jewish Town Hall.
Annual festivals and holidays often offer free entertainment and the possibility to experience local culture. The Procession of the Three Kings typically takes place on January 5th every year and ends at Prague's Loreto, where a live nativity scene can be viewed. Prague's Carnival is a time for costumes and parades, and a party is held on Old Town Square for anyone who wants to participate. On the Night of St. Nicholas (December 5th), actors dressed as the saint and his companions wander the streets of the city and pass out candy to children. On New Year's Eve, fireworks displays light up the night sky, and these can be seen from various vantage points around the Czech capital.
Prague's Night of Churches in May and the Prague Night of Museums in June are both free events. The Night of Churches is an opportunity to enjoy Prague's religious structures - some which are not typically open to the public. Concerts, performances, lectures, and tours are arranged at participating museums for Prague Museum Night.
Prague's monuments, scattered throughout the city, offer insight into Prague's culture and history. Taking note of monuments creates an opportunity to learn about what is important to the Czech people. Monuments around Prague include political monuments - like those that commemorate movements against injustices, monuments to important historical figures, and monuments to those whose creativity have contributed to the lively artistic, musical, and literary culture of Prague.
Window shopping is always free in Prague, and for the most dedicated window shoppers, Prague will not disappoint. From antique shops and jewelry shops to clothing stores and stores selling crystal, Prague's shops are as varied in what they sell as they are in the prices they ask for their goods. Examine Czech-made treasures at stores like Botanicus and Manufaktura. Explore room after room of crystal and porcelain at Moser (in New Town), or window shop for Czech garnets or marionettes in Old Town. You will also find Soviet memorabilia, military surplus, and artwork in Prague's shops.
Most gardens in Prague are free to enter. These gardens and parks include the Wallenstein Gardens, Prague Castle Gardens, Kampa Park, and the gardens on Petrin Hill. Most gardens are open daily from 10 am to 6 pm. Kampa Park and Petrin Park, in particular, are good places for picnics if the weather is nice.
Prague has beautiful churches of all architectural styles. The Church of St. Nicholas on Old Town Square, as well as the Church of Our Lady Victorious in Mala Strana, is free to enter. On Old Town Square, the Church of Our Lady Before Tyn requires no entry fee, and mass is still held there.
 Old Town Square 
 Wenceslas Square 
 Charles Bridge 
 Prague Castle Grounds 
 Josefov 
 Prague Seasonal Activities 
 Free Cultural Nights 
 Prague Monuments 
 Window Shopping 
 Gardens and Parks 
 Churches in Prague 
Most people visit Prague because it's one of the most popular destinations in East Central Europe. The allure of the historic baroque architecture, welcoming population, and delicious fare brings in visitors from across the globe—but you shouldn't go to Prague simply because everyone else goes.
Here are some real reasons to visit Prague.
 Future Light/Getty Images
Prague has so many attractions you can return to the Czech capital city again and again and never see all of them. Prague's diverse neighborhoods are each home to particular sights like Prague Castle and the Astronomical Clock in Old Town Square, so be sure to explore them all, from the Castle District to the Jewish District, from Old Town to New Town.
Matej Divizna / Contributor/Getty Images
Prague's annual events can make your trip even more memorable. Take advantage of free events, seasonal events, holiday parades, and yearly markets. 
Highlights include the Bohemian Carnevale at the end of February, and the Czech Beer Festival during the month of May.  
Not only will you experience a taste of Czech culture, but you'll get some great photos, too.
Alexander Spatari / Getty Images
Most of Prague's sights can be reached on foot, but if hoofing it doesn't appeal, or if the weather isn't cooperating, Prague's public transportation options make getting around the city easy. Hop on the metro, catch a cab, or use the tram. Most attractions are only a few minutes away.
Elan Fleisher / LOOK-foto/Getty Images
Prague has a lively nightlife. Jazz clubs and other live music, busy pubs, modern clubs—all serving famous (and cheap) Czech beer mean that, after shops and museums close, you will still have plenty to do.
Among the favorites with tourists and locals are Chapeau Rouge's giant dance club, James Dean's retro jukebox, and the Hemingway Bar, which boasts over 200 types of rum. 
Party all night if you choose at some of the locations. 
kamisoka / Getty images
Looking for designer clothes or unique jewelry? How about seasonal ornaments and decorations? Souvenirs, all-natural soaps, puppets, glass, or antiques?
For everything from high-fashion to the latest trends, try the Kotva Department Store, which has five floors of stores. While in the Old Town district, Cerna Ruze is a shopping complex that is likely to have everything you seek, and during warm weather, street fairs pop up across the city selling food, crafts, and other home goods. 
You can easily double your luggage when you visit Prague, so pack light or bring an extra bag. Finding souvenirs of your stay won't be a problem.
 
Richard Nebesky / Getty Images
If you're looking for live classical music, Prague's churches and palaces offer evening concerts throughout the week and on the weekends. Jazz or other live music can also be easily found.
During one of the city's music festivals, like the annual Prague Spring International Music Festival in the late spring/early summer, its schedule is packed with performances, so check what's on in Prague before you go.
ValeryEgorov / Getty Images
If you want to get out of the city, take a day trip to one of the many locations that are easily accessible by train in a few hours.
Castles, spas, and medieval towns are all potential day trips and will add another dimension to your trip to the capital. The spa town of Carlsbad is about a 3-hour train away, the nearby Karlštejn Castle makes for stunning photos, and the "bone church" in Kutna Hora will appeal to those craving a touch of culture and history. 
Richard Nebesky / Getty Images 
Czech beer can be enjoyed for less than a bottle of water in Prague. Other spirits, like absinthe and plum brandy, are also on menus in Prague—try them all to determine which is your favorite.
For fans of Prague's most famous beverage, pilsner beer, the birthplace of the brew is in the town of Pilsen, an easy one-hour train ride away and a fun day trip. 
John Borthwick / Getty images
Prague is home to many world-famous artists, authors, and poets, and museums throughout the city are dedicated to these individuals. 
The Mucha Museum and the Kafka Museum are both popular Prague attractions During Prague's holidays and festivals, folk performers, and choral groups take to Prague's squares and give free performances.
Andrea Pistolesi / Getty Images
Though a ticket to Prague from the States might seem steep, the actual cost of your visit can be manageable. Though more expensive than other Eastern European destinations, Prague has plenty of free things to do, and many other attractions are still less expensive than they would be in Western European countries. 
For low—or no—cost outings, take in the view from the Petrin Observation Tower, take a tour of the grounds at the Prague Castle and Wallenstein Gardens, or marvel at the classic design at the Church of Our Lady Before Tyn in the Old Town Square. 
 Main Attractions 
 Awesome Events 
 Public Transportation 
 Nightlife and Clubs 
  Shopping  
  Live Music  
 Easy Day Trips 
  Czech Beer and Spirits  
  Czech Art, Literature, and Culture  
 Cost of Travel 
Luckily for those traveling to Prague by air, Václav Havel Airport Prague is as gentle, easy-going, and as far from intimidating as its namesake. Passengers will be welcomed with Czech hospitality from the moment they step off the plane, and arrive in the city center quickly after. It’s even possible to grab your first, or last, pint of beer here. But what really makes this relatively small airport stand out from the rest, is how comfortable its amenities make passengers feel, whether they are waiting to board their flight home, looking for something to do on a layover, or traveling to the City of Spires as their final destination. Václav Havel Airport Prague is quickly expanding to offer visitors a welcome arrival and kind departure, and is set to be one of the most innovative airports in the coming years as tourism increases.
Compared to airports in other European capitals, Václav Havel Prague Airport is on the small side. There are only two terminals; Terminal 1 is used primarily for travelers going to other countries in the European Union, while Terminal 2 is used for all other international destinations. Both are immaculately clean, extremely safe, easy to navigate, and should you need to, you can change terminals by walking outside and into the next building. Delta and American Airlines offer direct flights from the U.S. There are also direct flights to Doha, Qatar; Seoul, South Korea; and several cities in China. Otherwise, all of the top European airlines fly to Václav Havel Airport Prague (especially smaller shuttle services, like SmartWings and Ryanair). It doesn't take long to clear security checks and flights are generally timed well enough that the arrival halls are not very crowded.
Because of its proximity to the city center (it takes about 20 minutes by car to reach Old Town Square), most locals do not utilize the airport parking options, instead opting to take public transportation, or hired vehicles. The airport has three official parking areas: 
Driving to Václav Havel Airport is very easy; travelers can find their way to the Evropská motorway, and head west, which leads directly to the airport located at the edge of Prague 6. There generally is not a lot of traffic except for rush hour, so add on at least 20-30 minutes extra if your flight leaves between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m., or 4 p.m. and 6 p.m.
While Prague’s public transportation system is extensive, there is not a direct metro, train, or tram from the airport. The least expensive, and quickest way to get into the city center is by taking the Airport Express bus, which costs approximately 129 Czech koruna for a one-way trip, and brings travelers to Prague’s Main Railway station in 25 minutes. From there, travelers can take the C metro line, or a number of trams, to their final destination.
Taking a taxi or shuttle is definitely an option, and is fairly inexpensive depending on how many people are traveling together. Some taxis have a reputation for ripping off tourists, so taking an official airport taxi is the best bet. They are FIX Taxi, and Taxi Praha, which operate 24/7 and have set prices based on the mileage involved (prices are typically between 650 to 700 Czech koruna total). Taxis can usually be reserved online beforehand, but there are also sales counters at the arrivals hall of Terminals 1 and 2.
If you'd rather not take a taxi, you can also easily use a ride-share service like Uber, Bolt, or Liftago. Since there is no official ride-share pickup point, there can sometimes be a wait. Prague Airport Transfers is a reputable company that provides transparent pricing for shared shuttles, private vehicles, and more, to and from the airport.
Within the airport, there are over 30 places for guests to find refreshment, and a variety of meal types based on budget, time, and dietary need. Travelers can pick up snacks and fast food in the arrivals hall of Terminals 1 and 2; past the security check, there are a wide range of casual and sit-down restaurants, including several options to grab one last pint while waiting for a flight.
If you’ve forgotten to pick up souvenirs from Prague, the airport provides no shortage of shopping options. 
For most travelers, Prague will be their final destination, so there aren't many layovers in the airport. However, for those looking to occupy themselves during a connection, there is a relaxation zone located in Terminal 2 between Piers C and D. This area is best for those looking to sit comfortably and charge their devices, or use the Wi-Fi in peace. Terminal 1 has a small area to buy books and magazines, where travelers are welcome to browse in comfort, and for longer layovers (or just a quick rest and refresh), the newly constructed AeroRooms is available.
Families will find many facilities made for children of all ages, equipped with games, toys, and quiet areas they can use while waiting for their next flight.
Václav Havel Airport has three lounges and all are available to any class of passenger flying on any airline. Fees vary based on the lounge, but the cost includes up to 2 hours of access and pre-booking is not required. 
Wi-Fi is available throughout the airport, for free, though connection can be spotty depending on where you are. The Relaxation Zone is the best place to connect, unwind, and recharge (literally). The area is a semi-private, free alternative to the lounge areas, is open 24 hours, and offers high-speed Wi-Fi internet access, as well as multiple phone and laptop charging outlets. Keep your European adapter handy, as most plugs are outfitted this way.
  Václav Havel Airport Prague Airport Code, Location, and Flight Information  
  Know Before You Go  
  Václav Havel Airport Prague Parking  
  Driving Directions  
  Public Transportation and Taxis  
  Where to Eat and Drink  
  Where to Shop  
  How to Spend Your Layover  
  Airport Lounges  
  Wi-Fi and Charging Stations  
  Václav Havel Prague Airport Tips & Facts  
Airport Code: PRG
Location: Aviatická, 161 08 Praha 6, Czechia
Airport map: Prague Airport Map
Flight Tracker: Prague Airport Arrivals and Departures
Phone number: +420 220 111 888
Short-term parking based on hours: For 60 Czech koruna per hour, those wishing to accompany passengers to the check-in kiosks can choose this option. It’s the better option if your time at the airport will exceed the free 15 minutes the short-term parking lots offer. There are two hour-based lots. Economy, an outdoor lot in front of Terminal 2, and Comfort, a covered parking building in front of Terminals 1 and 2.
Long-term parking based on days: Travelers with cars that are going out of town can book a parking space at one of three long-term facilities: the Basic lot, located outside, starts at 990 Czech koruna for seven days. The Comfort and Comfort VIP lots offer more protection and service, for 1,500-2,900 Czech koruna for seven days, respectively.
Starbucks, Burger King, KFC, Costa Coffee, and Rancheros, are a few of the global, fast-food options available in both terminals.
Restaurace Praha, found in the public area of the airport, is a good choice for inexpensive lunch options, with meal options as low as 95 Czech koruna.
There are four Pilsner Urquell restaurants, three inside the airport, and one in the public area, which provide fresh beer and Czech food, with a waitstaff and bar.
There are several shops dedicated to Bohemian crystal, glass, and porcelain, as well as smaller shops with t-shirts, postcards, magnets, Czech sweets, and more, in both Terminals 1 and 2. 
We Are Food Lovers and Prague Chocolate are good choices for snacks and sweet gifts.
For Czech beauty products, there are two Manufaktura shops, one in each Terminal.
There are plenty of fashion and accessory shops in both Terminals, should travelers need to pick up items they forgot to pack.
The Raiffeisenbank Lounge: For guests traveling within the Schengen Area in Terminal 2. Access to this lounge costs 850 Czech koruna and it has individual security checks, refreshments, TV, Wi-Fi, tablets for rent, newspapers, a children's corner, and showers.
The Mastercard Lounge: For guests traveling to countries outside the Schengen area from Terminal 1. Access to this lounge costs 720 Czech koruna and it has refreshments, TV, Wi-Fi, tablets for rent, newspapers, a children's corner, an office corner with a printer, and showers.
The Erste Premier Lounge: For guests traveling to countries within the Schengen Area from Terminal 2. Access to this lounge costs 720 Czech koruna and is has refreshments, TV, Wi-Fi, tablets for rent, newspapers, a children's corner, an office corner with a printer, and showers.
The airport began construction in 1932, was finished in 1937, and its architecture and design became a model for similarly sized airports across Europe.
The name of Prague Airport was changed from Prague-Ruzyně, to Václav Havel Airport Prague, on 5 October 2012, the anniversary of the day former president of the Czech Republic, Václav Havel, was born.
There are several outdoor spotting platforms, indoor viewing terraces, and special fence holes on the perimeter of the airport, that allow aviation fans an up-close-and-personal experience with planes that are arriving and landing. 
The airport is set up for geocaching, where travelers can walk around the airport to find special clues using an app. Participants can win the Czech Wooden Geocoin when they are done.
There is a post office at the airport where you can mail postcards for as little as 3 Czech koruna.
A full scale model of the airport, made out of Legos, is located in Terminal 2.
Avoid changing money at the airport; InterExchange kiosks are all over the airport, but the rates are high. It is wiser to change money in Prague.
Because of Prague’s location, it’s often a city added to longer Central European itineraries, and while most of Prague’s main sights can be seen in a short period of time, there is more than enough to see and experience to fill the days of a longer trip. Many of the Czech Republic's other cities, large and small, are easily accessible by very efficient, inexpensive public transportation, and typically take less than three hours to reach from Prague (driving east to west across the Czech Republic takes about six and a half hours, for context). 
Sports fans, nature enthusiasts, history buffs, art lovers, and everyone in between will be able to find a city or a rural village with Czech attractions that interest them. Make Prague your home base while becoming acquainted with the rest of Bohemia and Moravia on these top day trips.
The birthplace of pilsner beer, Pilsen is the fourth largest city in the Czech Republic, and one of the most popular day trip destinations from Prague. It’s home to the Pilsner Urquell Brewery, where guided tours take guests through the facility, providing insight on how beer is made, where it’s stored, and ending with a glass of fresh beer for visitors to sample. Pilsner beer dates back to 1842, when it was first developed by Josef Groll, and it has since become a symbol of Czech heritage ever since.
History fans will also appreciate Pilsen’s connection to World War II. It was one of the only Czech towns to be liberated by American troops; today, the Patton Memorial Museum pays tribute to those troops and to General George S. Patton, where visitors can learn more about the liberation and see artifacts from the 1940s and 1950s.
Getting There: Pilsen is easily reached by train, from Prague’s main railway station, Praha Hlavní Nádraží. Trains run every 30 minutes on the quarter of an hour. The Pilsner factory is a short 10 minute walk from the Pilsen train station, and the city center is similarly close by.
Travel Tip: The fall is a great time to visit for beer lovers, when Pilsen hosts the Pilsner Beer festival (first weekend in October) and the Sun in the Glass festival (third September weekend). The city truly hones in on its affinity for beer, with concerts, keg tappings, and more revelery.
Far on the eastern side of Bohemia, near the German border, sits Karlovy Vary, a town known for being the spa capital of the Czech Republic. Here, you can visit over 170 hotels and wellness retreats dedicated to health recovery, relaxation, and luxury medical services. If booking a massage, facial, or other treatment isn’t your style; it’s easy enough to enjoy a light hike through the city’s green areas, or sample natural spring water from several colonnades.
For an elevated relaxation experience, visit the original Beer Spa, where ingredients for beer are mixed in warm water that guests soak in while enjoying unlimited beer while there. It is also the site of the annual Karlovy Vary International Film Festival, one of the biggest film events in the country. 
Getting There: The RegioJet and Flix bus lines leave from the Praha Florenc bus station, and takes about two hours and ten minutes to get to Karlovy Vary. Direct trains from Prague leave about every 2 hours from Praha Hlavní Nádraží, but the journey takes a bit longer (around 3 hours).
Travel Tip: Becherovka, a Czech herbal bitters, is all over the Czech Republic, but Karlovy Vary is the best place to try it, as it is made here. Take it as a shot, or order a Beton, the Czech version of a gin and tonic.
The Czech Republic is actually divided into two regions: Bohemia, the largest region which encompasses Prague, and Moravia, a smaller region to the east. Moravian culture has its own variations from what travelers will find in Prague, and a visit to Brno, the second largest city in the country, provides the perfect entrypoint. Here, visitors can enjoy visual arts and photography from the region at the Moravian Gallery, or take a short hike up to Špilberk Castle, which was a military prison up until the 19th century. 
Getting There: Trains run regularly between Prague and Brno, almost every 10 or 15 minutes, from Praha Hlavní Nádraží. The journey will take between 2.5 to 3.5 hours, depending on which line you take. The RegioJet bus from Praha Florenc also offers a less-expensive option that is direct, and takes 2 hours and 35 minutes.
Travel Tip: Brno is also home to several universities, including Masaryk University, the second largest university in the country. Because of this, the city has a very youthful vibe; a visit to Super Panda Circus offers an exciting night of cocktails and music, and for a low-key hang, check out Atelier Cocktail Bar & Bistro.
The town of Ústí nad Labem doesn’t pop up on a lot of travel itineraries in the Czech Republic, but it offers a lot in terms of a quick trip from Prague. Bordering on Germany in Northwestern Bohemia, it is well known for being an industrial capital, with many factories for textiles, chemicals, and more. Despite the town's industrial reputation, access to nature is the biggest draw. This area got its name from two 18th century Swiss artists, and is now the location of Bohemian Switzerland National Park (České Švýcarsko), the Czech Republic’s youngest national park. There are trails, scenic routes, waterfalls, and sandstone rock formations to admire, and the area is easy enough for outdoor enthusiasts of all levels.
Getting There: Trains and buses can get you to the city center of Ústí, but to reach the nature park, it’s best to rent a car and drive there directly. It generally takes less than 3 hours and will offer a more comfortable mode of transport back to Prague, after a long day of hiking. 
Travel Tip: For an unusual meal experience, book a table at the Větruše Chateau, which is reachable via an aerial cable car from the Forum shopping centre.
Less than 6,000 people live in the Moravian town of Telč, but it’s worth a visit if Renaissance art, history, and trade networks interest you. Telč was part of an extensive network of Medieval and Renaissance merchant sites, which is why its architecture stands out. The main square, with its rows of pastel-colored buildings, small shops, and lively market, makes visitors feel as though they’ve stepped into the pages of a romantic storybook. It is recognized as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, for the level of historic preservation the town has kept for centuries.
A visit to the Telč Chateau provides even more insight into the rich history of this small town. Originally built in the Gothic style, the castle was reconstructed to reflect the trends of Renaissance-era Italian villas. Self-guided tours of the chateau allow travelers to immerse themselves in the world of its previous owners, whose furnishings, decor, and more have been well preserved.
Getting There: Traveling by car or private transport rental is the fastest way to get to Telč, taking just under 3 hours. RegioJet and Flixbus also travel to Telč, but leave enough time for at least one transfer in České Budějovice.
Travel Tip: Dine at the Švejk Restaurant, a Czech franchise restaurant inspired by the original Jaroslav Hašek novel, "The Good Soldier Švejk." The book chronicles a character from stories used to teach lessons about Czech history and culture, and the menu of Czech dishes is inspired by meals and characters from the story.
Travelers can explore how integral mining was to the Moravian region with a visit to Ostrava, a city near the Polish border. Start at Landek Park, a restored 19th-century mine with interactive experiences that include riding down a replica mine shaft elevator, and participating in a rescue mission. In the warmer months, the well-manicured grounds host concerts and other events. Nearby, Michal Mine provides a glimpse into the everyday life of a miner, with replica changing rooms, equipment, bathrooms for the crews, a lamp room, and the machine and the boiler room.
Getting There: Traveling by train or bus from Praha Hlavní Nádraží takes about 3.5 hours, but you’ll be able to enjoy the changing landscape from Bohemia to Moravia along the way. Direct trains run about every 20 minutes.
Travel Tip: Partiers will appreciate the seemingly nonstop entertainment scene on Stodolní Street, which is where the majority of bars, clubs, and casinos exist. It’s very much a, “work hard, party harder” kind of attitude, even amongst Czechs, so fuel up with some street eats before the night begins.
This popular Moravian city was made famous for the infamous Olomouc cheese, beloved by some, reviled by others. Olomoucké Tvarůžky can be found in most markets and restaurants in Moravia, and it’s worth trying if only to say you’ve tried it. It’s made from sheep’s cheese that has been aged under meat, is low in fat and cholesterol, and is recognized by its pungent scent (defined as a different taste by everyone who tries it). Olomouc cheese has its own museum and bakery in nearby Loštice, where visitors can purchase pastries and baked goods that use it as a main ingredient. 
Aside from stinky snacks, Olomouc is truly a center for Moravian culture. The Holy Trinity Column in the center of town is the largest free-standing Baroque sculpture in Central Europe, and is also part of the UNESCO monument list. Baroque art and architecture can also be found in the many fountains of the city, and in the wintertime, the Olomouc Christmas market is the perfect place to pick up a special gift. 
Getting There: Trains run about every 20 minutes from Praha Hlavní Nádraží, and the trip takes about 2.5 hours. 
Travel Tip: The Entrée Restaurant offers a serene refuge from Olomouc cheese, and is considered one of the best new restaurants in the area. Its decor is very Insta-worthy, and includes a lush, living garden, and an open kitchen. Menu items are inspired by nature, and the restaurant offers a few tasting menus, including a “bizarre” tasting menu which lists the dishes in simple, albeit cryptic, terms.
Most travelers associate the city of Prague with a fairytale-like ambiance, but the true storybook lifestyle is found in Southern Bohemia’s Český Krumlov. The city has done an excellent job of preserving its Renaissance and Baroque architecture, and is recognized as a UNESCO World Heritage Site for its contributions to Czech history, art, and culture. The main attraction is Český Krumlov castle, with its restored Baroque theater and tower, where visitors can ascend to the top and take in a full view of the village below.
Walking is the best way to explore the city center, as it offers you an up-close view of the artistic details Český Krumlov is known for. Every side street tells a story, and has contributed to the history of the Rožmberk family, the richest Czech family in history. Their love for Italian Renaissance architecture influenced much of the city’s structure; it’s not uncommon to see everyday buildings with beautiful sgraffito, or 16th century frescos. In the evenings, strolling through the streets lit by gas lanterns makes Český Krumlov feel even more romantic. 
Getting There: Buses run frequently from Prague to Český Krumlov and are the preferred method of transportation, as travelers get dropped off right at the beginning of town, making for easy access. The journey takes between 3 to 3.5 hours, depending on the bus line and how many stops/transfers are involved (České Budějovice is a common transfer point). There is a train station but trips from Prague are not as frequent, and it’s about a 25 minute walk from the station to the edge of town.
Travel Tip: The end of February is an exciting time for Český Krumlov, when it hosts Carnival. It feels like a week-long Renaissance fair, with banquets, parades, dance parties, lavish costume displays, and more. It’s a very unique way to experience this tradition carried over from Venice.
Budweiser is arguably one of the most popular beers in the United States, but few know about the drama involved with its Czech roots. A tour of the Budvar brewery walks visitors through the beer brewing process (with a recipe for beer dating back over seven centuries), and sheds light on the brand and name war in "The Story of Budweiser Beer" exhibit. Whether Budweis and Budvar are the same or different is up to you; contemplate the controversy over a beer poured directly from kegs in the lager storeroom, or visit the massive beer hall at Masné Krámy instead.
České Budějovice isn’t all about beer though. The city is home to one of the largest squares in Europe, Přemysla Otakara II Square, which is exactly 1 hectare (2.47 acres). It’s here visitors will find the Samson fountain, and Baroque architecture, with shops, cafes, and pubs selling Budvar. Legend has it, the Black Tower has skeleton who would ring the death bell in place of lazy tower guards; visitors can climb the tower today if they are brave enough to not get spooked.
Getting There: Trains run approximately every half hour from Praha Hlavní Nádraží. Buses also frequently depart from Praha Florenc. Both modes take approximately 2 hours to reach the city.
Travel Tip: České Budějovice used to be a central hub for the salt trade, and many shops offer salt as a gift to take home. The Medieval Salt House was recently restored inside and is a prized piece of architecture in the area. It once stored salt that was enroute to other European destinations, but today it is home to the restaurant Solnice, which honors the building’s history while serving contemporary dishes.
Hockey is the Czech Republic’s number one sport for sure, but a little known fact is how much Czechs adore their horses. Less than an hour from the capital, is the area of Pardubice, well known for its horse farms, trails, and a rich history of champion riders. Pardubice has hosted Great Pardubice Steeplechase since 1874, which is known as Europe’s oldest cross-country horse race, consisting of 31 obstacles, including the Taxis Ditch—a hedge fence with a 3-foot-deep, 19-foot-long ditch that is considered one of the hardest obstacles a jockey can overcome.
In the city of Pardubice, visitors may be charmed by the Renaissance frescoes and architecture evocative of beautiful gingerbread houses. It’s not too far off from the second most well-known aspect of this area: some of the country’s best gingerbread is produced here, thanks to the Gingerbread Guild established in the 16th century. Since then, Pardubice has been the go-to city for all things gingerbread and marzipan. Visitors can learn more about this tradition at the Gingerbread Museum. 
Getting There: Trains from Praha Hlavní Nádraží run very frequently, at least every 20 minutes, and will have you at Pardubice’s main railway station in an hour. 
Travel Tip: If horses aren’t your thing, watch a hockey game with the HC Dynamo team, or watch a motorcycle race at Pardubice Speedway Stadium, home of the Golden Helmet race.
The Jizera Mountains, located just outside of Liberec in Northern Bohemia, remain one of the most accessible, nature-focused day trips from Prague. The mountains are popular with the winter sports crowd, especially cross-country skiers, who take advantage of the area’s nearly 100 miles of trails dedicated to the activity.
In the warmer months, the mountain paths are still lovely to walk through, but to really appreciate the area, visit the Ještěd TV Tower. Construction was completed in 1973, and it is an example of mid-century, futuristic architecture that stands out against the Czech Republic’s Medieval, Renaissance, and Baroque buildings. The tower, resembling a funnel, contains a gallery, a restaurant with panoramic views (it’s possible to see as far as Germany and Poland), and a hotel, for those wishing to extend their stay.  
Getting There: The fastest way to get to Liberec is by car, especially if travelers plan on exploring the mountain area or any of the wintertime resorts. Buses run every hour from the Praha Florenc bus station. A dedicated cable car takes guests from Liberec to the Ještěd TV Tower.
Travel Tip: iQpark offers an alternative indoor activity while visiting Liberec. This museum uses interactive exhibits to convey different scientific fields, with an emphasis on play and creativity. Chat with robots, learn about the wonders of the human body, or view an out-of-this-world show at the planetarium.
Iliusvla / Wikimedia Commons / CC BY-SA 3.0
Prague’s parks offer visitors the chance to relax within the city center, but those seeking some true peace and quiet don’t have to travel very far to find it. The Divoká Šárka Nature Reserve offers travelers the chance to do some hiking through tree-lined trails, which lead to expansive views, elevated rock formations, and natural springs. Take a dip in Džbán Lake, near one of Prague’s best camping areas, or splash around at the Divoká Šárka swimming pool, a popular place where locals to cool off. 
Getting There: Visitors can easily take tram 26 from the center of Prague, which stops just outside of Džbán Lake, in less than an hour. It’s also possible to take metro Line A to Nádraží Veleslavín, walk a short distance through the neighborhood of Vokovice, until the nature reserve is found.
Travel tip: Travelers can refresh themselves at the Dívčí Skok Pub, which offers a lovely beer garden in the warmer months.
  Pilsen: Pilsner Beer and World War II History  
  Karlovy Vary: Spas and Relaxation  
  Brno: The Capital of Moravia  
  Ústí nad Labem: The Gateway to Bohemian Switzerland  
  Telč: Czech Renaissance History  
  Ostrava: Mining History, Brought to Life  
  Olomouc: The Home of a Pungent Cheese  
  Český Krumlov: Explore a Fairytale Village  
  České Budějovice: Salt, Skeleton Legends, and Beer  
  Pardubice: Horse Racing and Gingerbread  
  Liberec: Visit a Television Transmitter Hotel  
  Divoká Šárka: A Urban Nature Reserve  
Prague blends East and West, with eight centuries of European history on display in its architecture and hip Continental cafe culture at its best. The snow-covered scenery looks especially alluring lit by old-fashioned gas lamps, and winter in Prague puts forth a full slate of activities with the advantage of far fewer crowds. An added plus is if you are there in December, there are Christmas holiday events and New Year's Eve celebrations. Since it's cold outside, winter is an excellent time to take in cultural performances and museum exhibitions. Pack your winter coat, and prepare to be charmed.
Central Prague contains some of the best preserved medieval architecture in Europe, with abundant evidence of the Gothic, Renaissance, and Baroque periods as well. Rococo and Cubist elements sitting side-by-side with sleek Bauhaus forms and stark communist reminders turn the city into a veritable walking tour of European history.
You can marvel at the various architectural styles at the Old Town Square, where buildings from across the centuries still stand. An elaborate display of Gothic architecture, St. Vitus Cathedral on the grounds of Prague Castle took centuries to build. And stop by the Czech Museum of Cubism in the House of the Black Madonna designed by Josef Gočár to see a relatively rare example of this uniquely Czech architectural style from the early 20th century.
Christmas in Prague undeniably upstages all other winter events. The market, which runs from the end of November through the first week of January, delivers a film-worthy Eastern European Christmas experience. The flavors, sounds, scents, and sights of the season converge in Old Town Square, where an annual market, complete with decorations and an events lineup, shows off Prague's Christmas cheer. Shop, people-watch, enjoy holiday pastries and hot mulled wine, listen to music, and take photographs. Christmas gifts from Prague include crystal, garnets, and other locally made items.
Visit the Old Town Square in the early evening on December 5 to watch Mikulas and his sidekicks, an angel and a devil, interact with equally apprehensive and eager children. Mikulas roams the streets on December 5 to pass out candy and treats to good children, who sing songs and recite poems to impress the ​Czech St. Nick. Naughty children receive lumps of coal and risk being hauled off to hell in the devil's musty sack.
Nativity scenes, both live and crafted out of wood, straw, and other materials, punctuate the Prague landscape in December. The Three Kings Procession, a parade led by costumed kings on camels, marks the end of the Christmas season on January 5. Children dressed as kings use the opportunity to collect money for the needy. During Advent, a lamplighter dressed in period clothing lights the gas lamps each night on the Charles Bridge, where local actors stage a live nativity scene.
This holiday exhibition in the basement of the Bethlehem chapel in Prague's Jewish Town centers around a particular theme each year (glass, bells, or wood, for example) and runs through the end of November to the beginning of January. One year, the exhibition featured a feast theme, with antique cooking utensils on display and demonstrations of traditionally prepared meals. This event makes a good addition to other Christmas-related activities in the ​Czech capital city.​
New Year’s Eve in the Czech capital city is an all-night event. You can take to the streets or enjoy the warmth and comfort of a cozy pub, swanky upscale venue, or river cruise boat. Watch the fireworks at midnight and toast to the excitement of ringing in the new year in the City of a Hundred Spires. If you want to brave the cold, head to Old Town Square, Wenceslas Square, or Charles Bridge.
This romantic holiday gets cozy against the backdrop of the Czech capital, with its castle, fine-dining establishments, concert halls, and shops selling jewelry and other heirloom treasures. Call ahead to the restaurant of your choice to make a reservation, and enjoy a relaxed candlelit meal. Mlynec Restaurant overlooks the scenic Charles Bridge in Old Town. Café Mozart on the Old Town Square combines dinner with live performances of classical music and jazz.
Czechs started the pagan tradition of Masopust, a farewell to winter, back in the 13th century, and some of the ancient rituals have earned status on the UNESCO World Heritage List. The festival nearly died under Soviet rule, along with most other religious traditions, but the carnival celebrations were revived in modern Prague with masked parades, lavish feasts, and fancy balls occurring throughout the capital city at the end of February or beginning of March.
Ice skating may arguably be the best activity to mingle with the locals, who still like to get fresh air and exercise in the Czech winter. Surprisingly sophisticated rinks pop up in various locations around the city during the coldest months of the year. You can rent skates at most; take a whirl on the ice at the Old Town Square to get your heart pumping. Or try the considerably bigger rink at Na Františku, located near the Convent of St. Agnes.
Concerts and performances fill the halls of Prague’s theaters and churches year round. Look for advertisements for string quartets, orchestras, and symphonies, opera, theater, and dance performances all around town. At the Municipal House's Smetana Concert Hall, the largest orchestras perform evening concerts. You can catch a classical performance at lunchtime at Lobkowicz Palace or listen to a concert in the Mirror Chapel at Klementinum in Old Town where Mozart played the organ.
Duck out of the chilly weather and into one of Prague’s hot museums, where you can explore the city's art, history, music, and literature. The National Gallery of Prague houses an international art collection, with rotating exhibits joining permanent exhibitions from Europe. The Museum of Communism provides a realistic look at that era of history in what was then Czechoslovakia, from the coup in 1948 until the collapse of communism in 1989. Other museums take a more unusual focus, such as the Torture Museum. While many museums are located in Old Town, don’t forget to visit the ones on Castle Hill.
Wrap your fingers around a mug of something hot and dig into a bowl of soup or a European-style dessert in any one of Prague’s many cafes. These cafes reverberate with history, and most of them serve up palate-pleasing plates, too. Cafe Slavia, Prague's most famous cafe, has been in business across from the National Theater since 1884. To sample a masterful Prague kolache, or fruit-filled pastry, visit EMA Espresso Bar, which may be the busiest in the city.
Prague's traditional cuisine makes perfect sense for cold-weather comfort. Roasted and smoked meats, sausages, hearty soups and stews, dumplings and rustic breads—generous calories keep the internal fires stoked during a cold, damp Czech winter. Just be sure to do plenty of walking between dining locations. In 2017, the Michelin Guide awarded a Bib Gourmand to ESKA for "simple yet skillful" cooking at a budget price. A local chain of five restaurants, Lokal has built its reputation on classic Czech cooking in a pub atmosphere.
Along with the centuries-old architecture, you can find breweries dating back to the Middle Ages in Prague. The Czechs made Pilsner famous; order "a beer" in a pub or restaurant and the bartender or server assumes you mean a liter of the light, refreshing brew. But while the Pilsner still rules, a fast-growing craft-beer scene means you can sample a worldly menu of styles.
When the weather turns cold, Svarak stalls open across the city, serving steaming cups of the Czech version of mulled wine. Recipes start with red wine, but any standard ends there. A batch might include citrus or apples, cinnamon and other warming spices, a sweetener, and occasionally rum.
When you finally feel ready to collapse from all of the activity and filling foods, it's time to find a sauna. Though not a Czech tradition, saunas and steam rooms feature prominently in the modern culture. At Sauna Spot, Sauna Nike overlooks the Vltava River while other rooms introduce aromatherapy, dry heat, or a built-in salt panel for upper respiratory tract health. You can take it one step further and have a sauna actually on the river, on the Lázně na lodi sauna boat.
  Marvel at the Architecture  
  Shop the Christmas Market  
  See Mikulas on St. Nicholas Day  
  Visit Nativity Scenes and the Procession of Three Kings  
  See the Christmas Display  
  Celebrate New Year's Eve  
  Get Romantic on Valentine's Day  
  Say Farewell to Winter During Masopust  
  Take a Whirl on the Ice Rinks  
  Enjoy Concerts and Performances  
  Learn at the Museums  
  Kick Back in Prague Cafes  
  Warm Up With Comfort Food  
  Sip on Beer and Mulled Wine  
  Relax in a Sauna  
Prague’s great public transportation system makes it easy to get around the city. While some of the routes may be time-consuming, visitors traveling around the city center will have good connections to the city’s main attractions. Most people use the metro, trams, and buses to get around the city. Since all of these are run by the same transport authority, you can use them all without having to purchase a separate ticket. This makes it easy to combine different modes of transportation to create the most direct or quickest route. Thanks to the help of planning tools such as Google Maps and the Prague Public Transport (DPP) app, navigating Prague’s transportation system is relatively easy.
The Prague metro system is one of the main ways to get around the city and is the one of the busiest metro systems in Europe, serving approximately 450 million people each year. There are three metro lines (Line A: green, Line B: yellow, Line C: red), and all three pass through the most popular destinations for visitors to Prague. Transferring between lines is easy to do and transfer points are clearly marked in the underground stations. This can take several minutes depending on the station and how crowded it is, so make sure to give yourself a little extra time if you have to switch lines.
Fares: A single journey, 30-minute ticket costs 24 Czech koruna and a 90-minute ticket for longer journeys is 32 Czech koruna. If you’re planning to use the public transportation system frequently during your stay, it may be more economical to purchase a 24-hour ticket for 110 Czech koruna or a 72-hour ticket for 310 Czech koruna. Since the tickets are time-based starting from the time you stamp them, you can use them to transfer to other forms of transportation as long as you stay within the allotted time frame. There are discounts for children 6-15 years old and seniors 60-70 years old. Children under 6 and seniors over 70 can travel for free. Tickets can be purchased from the yellow machines at the metro stations, newspaper shops, or via text message if you have a Czech SIM card.
Hours of Operation: The metro runs every day but the train times may vary depending on the day of the week or any big events happening in the city where additional transport services are required for security reasons. Generally, trains run every 2-3 minutes during peak times and every 4-9 minutes during off-peak times. Metro service begins at 5 a.m. and ends at midnight. 
Accessibility: While the Prague public transportation authority is working on improving accessibility in the metro, only about two-thirds of metro stations are wheelchair friendly. To transfer between lines, people with reduced mobility should change at the Muzeum stop for lines A and C and at the Florenc stop for lines B and C. There is no direct, wheelchair accessible exchange between lines A and B. Be sure to check DPP’s website prior to traveling for more information on which stations and entrances are barrier-free. Since many of the stations in the city center aren’t accessible, other forms of transportation may be more useful.
You can use the trip planner on the DPP website or app to plan your route and find out real-time departure and arrival information. However, keep in mind that the times shown don’t take into account the time you’ll need to move through the metro station.
Tickets for the tram are the same tickets used for the metro. They can be purchased at yellow ticket machines located at many of the stops or from the machines on every tram. If you're buying a ticket on the tram you will need to have a contactless credit or debit card. There are 21 daytime routes and 9 nighttime routes spanning the city, making this an easy way to get around at any time of day. Trams are, in general, more accessible than metro trains, but many high platform trams are still in use. The city is working on improving this, though, and the trams tend to alternate between high and low-level boarding to accommodate. The wheelchair ramp needs to be pulled out by the driver on the low boarding trams, so be sure to flag them as the tram is approaching so they know you’d like to board.  
There are numerous bus lines running throughout Prague day and night. The daytime buses begin service at 4:30 a.m. and switch to the night bus service at midnight. The same ticket used for the metro or tram can be used on the bus system. Additionally, tickets can be purchased from the driver but they will be more expensive. All of the Prague city buses are wheelchair accessible with a fold-out ramp at the center door entrance. As with the tram, you’ll need to flag the driver as they approach to let them know you’d like to board. While buses are more accessible than the metro or tram, the bus timetable is less reliable due to potential traffic restrictions.
There are six public ferryboat lines that cross the Vltava River, two of which operate year-round. These are part of the public transportation network, so you can use the same ticket as the metro, bus, or tram.
The first funicular was installed on Petřín Hill in 1891 and the modern version provides scenic views of the city. This popular mode of transport up the hill is also included in the Prague public transportation network and tickets valid on the other types of transport are valid on the funicular. The funicular runs year-round from 9 a.m. to 11:30 p.m., excluding closures in the spring and fall for regular maintenance. 
Prague taxis have a reputation for ripping off tourists; using ride-sharing apps or calling a taxi company directly are better options than grabbing one on the street, especially in popular tourist areas. Uber, Bolt, and Liftago are all popular options in the Czech Republic so you usually won’t have to wait too long for one to arrive. Ride-share services also generally offer better rates than the standard taxi service.
Renting a car is not the best idea in Prague unless you are planning to travel to locations outside the city center that are only easily accessible by car. It will likely be expensive, there may be parking restrictions in the city center, and it’ll often take longer to get places than public transportation due to traffic.
The public transportation system connects the city center to Prague Airport with a metro and bus combination journey. Bus 119 can be taken from the airport arrivals terminal to metro line A; bus 110 will take you to metro line B. There is also an Airport Express bus that directly connects Prague Airport with the main railway station. Public transportation tickets are not valid on the Airport Express bus so you’ll need to purchase one from the driver or order them in advance online.
Familiarizing yourself with a new transportation network can be stressful at first, but keep these tips in mind and you’ll have no trouble navigating Prague on public transportation.
  How to Ride the Prague Metro  
  How to Ride the Tram  
  How to Ride the Bus  
  Ferryboats  
  The Funicular   
  Taxis and Ride-Sharing Apps  
  Car Rentals  
  How to Get From the Airport  
  Tips for Getting Around Prague  
Be prepared to stand. Prague’s metro, tram, and bus lines can get very crowded during rush hour and late at night so you may have difficulty finding a seat. If you have found a seat but a senior, child, pregnant woman, or person with a disability comes on, it is polite and appropriate etiquette to offer your seat to them.
Know your exit. Some of the metro stops have multiple exits so it’s best to have an idea of where you need to go once you get off the train. Some stations, such as Můstek, are very large so you may end up way on the other side of Wenceslas Square if you take the wrong exit.
Make sure you’re at the right tram stop. The Palackého náměstí tram stop, for example, has two locations around the corner from one another. Make sure you’re waiting at the right stop and for a tram going in the direction you need to travel.
Know which timetable you need. Bus and tram timetables are posted at each stop with different schedules for weekdays, Saturdays, and Sundays. The Sunday timetable also applies if it’s a public holiday.
Stamp your ticket. Transportation tickets aren’t valid until you stamp them. Don’t forget to stamp it each time you’re using a new ticket and keep it easily accessible in case of inspection. 
Know the Czech name of your stop. Google Maps often translates the names of places and transportation stops from Czech to English. If it tells you that you want to get off the tram at Wenceslas Square, you’ll want to look and listen for the Václavské náměstí stop.
Prague Castle is one of Prague's main attractions and may be one of your most memorable experiences of Prague. Use these tips to make the most of your visit.
Plan the night before to visit Prague Castle early in the morning. If you go early, you'll be able to beat the crowd. Prague Castle opens at 9 am. Plan to arrive a little before 9. You'll notice the crowds gradually thicken over the course of the next hour or two.
You should allow 2-3 hours at minimum for visiting Prague Castle. However, if you find that you want to follow the audio tour, seeing the Prague Castle Complex may take longer. Make sure you've eaten breakfast before you go. You can get lunch in the vicinity of Prague Castle after your visit and digest all you've seen over hot dumplings or cold beer.
Don't let previous bad experiences with audio tours prevent you from renting the one for Prague Castle. The English language audio tour is easily understood, offers quality information, and is thorough. (If you aren't interested in history, it's almost too thorough, but you can fast forward through what doesn't interest you).
In addition to the tickets and the audio tour, you have the option of purchasing a license that will allow you to take photos on the interiors of the buildings that make up the Prague Castle complex. If you have a camera, purchase this license. St. Vitus Cathedral, in particular, is visually stunning, and you'll find yourself disappointed if you can't take photos while you're there.
St. Vitus Cathedral is one of the most interesting and beautiful buildings in the Prague Castle complex. Visit Vitus Cathedral before you see anything else. Traipsing around the complex can quickly wear you out, so you should see St. Vitus Cathedral while you've still got lots of energy and enthusiasm.
Prague Castle is an enormous complex of buildings, most of which will only protect you from extreme weather conditions to some degree. If the weather is cold, you'll be cold throughout your tour of Prague Castle. If it's rainy, you'll get wet walking from building to building.
Comfortable walking shoes should be worn for your tour of Prague Castle. Like all walkways in Prague, the squares and alleys in Prague Castle are paved with bricks, some of which have settled into uneven angles and can become slick when wet.
Try to see Prague Castle on a weekday. Weekends at Prague Castle see the worst crowds.
 Visit Early 
  Allocate Plenty of Time to Visit  
  Rent the Audio Tour  
  Purchase the Photo License  
  Visit St. Vitus Cathedral First  
  Dress for the Weather  
  Wear Comfortable Walking Shoes  
  Visit on a Weekday  
Travel to Prague in spring, and you’ll witness the city shaking off its last dusting of snow, see flower boxes begin to be filled with the earliest blooms, enjoy Easter and other springtime celebrations, and feel the anticipation of the center gearing up for the heaviest crowds in the fast-approaching summer. Spring travel to Prague offers plenty of advantages over height-of-summer travel, but you should be prepared for the capriciousness of the weather, look out for annual events, and know what limitations you might face if you travel very early in the spring.
Average springtime weather for Prague ranges from the upper 30s to the low 60s. If you travel in early March, you may even see some snow; on the other hand, if you travel in late May, the weather will feel like summer on some days.
No matter what side of spring you travel during, do pack versatile clothing that you can layer for the coldest days or chilly nights. And for springtime showers, carry an umbrella so you don’t become soaked while sightseeing!
You probably won’t need winter boots for Prague in March, April, or May. As always, however, pack shoes that are easy to walk in, have good tread and cover your feet completely. While you won’t be tramping around in the snow, you will encounter puddles and slick cobblestones. Warm socks that cushion your feet and wick away moisture are also a good investment.
Major springtime events draw visitors to Prague annually. Those events include Bohemian Carneval, Prague’s Easter markets, and the Prague Spring Music Festival.
Easter in Prague is an event that engages locals and travelers alike. Organizers decorate the city for this important holiday and vendors at the Easter markets sell souvenirs such as Czech Easter eggs.
Also look for the annual Night of Witches on April 30th, the Prague Festival of Czech Beer and Prague’s Night of Churches.
While you can’t enjoy every one of the 50 things to do in Prague in spring, a great many are possible. Though the chilliest days might make sightseeing less than pleasant, you can always duck into a museum to warm your feet and hands and take in some culture. Alternatively, find a cozy corner of a café and enjoy a hot beverage with a bowl of soup or a luscious, layered dessert. On warm days, a stroll through the historic district or a tour of Prague Castle should be on the menu.
If you choose to take a day trip from Prague, be sure to check the hours of operation of castles or museums prior to your journey. Some attractions outside of Prague open on a limited basis on off-peak times. This tip holds true more so for travel in early spring rather than in late spring; late April and early May see an uptick in visitors and the improving weather makes these sights more popular.
While it is always important to plan ahead for any trip abroad, finding and booking a hotel months in advance isn’t as necessary in spring as it is in summer. Springtime hotel prices will increase the closer you get to summer, so if budget is a consideration, try a trip to Prague in March and avoid booking in the heart of Old Town. Try Mala Strana or the Castle District for hotel rooms that are reasonably priced but still within walking distance of major attractions, restaurants, and shops.
  Weather  
  What to Pack  
  Events  
  What to Do in Spring  
  Hotels for Spring Travel to Prague  
