Moscow is a wonderful city to visit, and travelers on river ship cruise tours to or from St. Petersburg spend a few days in Moscow. This capital city of Russia was our last port on a river cruise tour, and we had about four days to see most of the highlights. Our first day we did an overview driving tour and rode the subway under the Mockba (Moscow) River to Red Square. The next day we toured the State Armory and the Kremlin.
These photos show some of the other highlights you can see with three or four days in Moscow.
The Northern River Terminal is located on the Moscow Canal in the northwest section of Moscow at the Khimki Reservoir.
Most river cruise ships sailing between Moscow and St. Petersburg use the ship as a hotel while in Moscow. Because of traffic, it's often a long drive into the city, but the sights along the way are interesting, and you only have to unpack once for the river cruise.
Sparrow Hills is the best place to get a great panoramic view of Moscow. The Sparrow Hills overlook the Mockba River and are near Moscow State University.
Novodevichy Convent in Moscow was founded in 1524, and was once used as a sort of prison for the unwanted wives and sisters of the Tsars. Peter the Great sent both his first wife and his sister to Novodevichy. Since the convent had such famous nuns, it was very wealthy due to the many donations of the Tsars and their families. At one time in the 1700s, the cloister had over 36,000 serfs working in 36 villages. Novodevichy was ravaged by the French armies in 1812, but the brave nuns saved the buildings by disarming the fuses set to blow them up. The Soviets wanted to make the convent into a museum in the early 1920s, but it was again saved.
Novodevichy also has a cemetery with the graves of many famous Russians, including Nikita Khrushchev, Anton Chekhov, Raisa Gorbachev, and Yuri Nikulin.
The Mockba (Moscow) River runs into the Volga via the 79.5 mile long Moscow Canal.
River ships sailing between Moscow and St. Petersburg on the Baltic Waterways embark and disembark at the Northern River Terminal about an hour's drive from the city. The drive time can vary significantly in length because of the heavy Moscow traffic. The river looks peaceful here, as it winds around the cosmopolitan area of Moscow.
The Cathedral of Christ the Redeemer, also known as the Cathedral of Christ the Savior, is the largest church in Russia, holding 10,000 worshipers.
The original Cathedral of Christ the Savior was built over 44 years to celebrate the 1812 victory over Napoleon. It was completed in 1883. Stalin had the church destroyed in 1931, but it was rebuilt using mostly private funds in 1999. The new church is a replica of the original. Note that it took 44 years the first time and only 4 years the second to complete the church! Isn't modern technology impressive.
One interesting tidbit is that it took three attempts to blow up the church in 1931. Stalin planned to build a huge Palace of the Soviets on the cleared land, but engineers determined that the land was too boggy. In the 60 years intervening, the space was used for a variety of things, including a year-round swimming pool!
The panoramic view of Moscow from Sparrow Hills is a stopover for most tour groups, so we were not surprised to see a large number of vendors. The ski jump was a surprise, but Moscow gets very cold in winter, so winter sports are very popular. This ski jump is near Moscow State University and has a great view of the city. Seeing this ski jump reminded me of the famous Holmenkollen Ski Jump in Oslo, which also has a great view of that northern capital city.
I thought this display of dolls was beautiful! The Matryoshka nesting dolls range in price from just a few dollars to thousands of dollars.
This small band greeted us at the Central Museum of Armed Forces in Moscow. They played a variety of band music and made us all feel very welcome.
This arch looks a little like the Arc de Triomphe in Paris, and it is located near the Victory Park Metro Station in Moscow.
This Grand Triumphal Arch is decorated with the coats of arms from the 48 Russian provinces. To celebrate the victory over France in the war of 1812, it also includes bas-reliefs of the "Expulsion of the French." The arch was originally built in 1834, but has only been on this site since 1968.
It is a little ironic that this arch resembles the Paris Arc de Triomphe, which Napoleon built between 1806 and 1836 to celebrate his French victories.
This station near Red Square has many statues honoring the workers of Russia.
The Metro in Moscow is one of its shining industrial achievements. Construction on the Metro was begun in 1931 and continues today. The system has over 165 stations and 155 miles of track. Over 9300 trains, traveling sometimes as fast as 56 mph, navigate the huge system each day. Almost 10 million people ride the Moscow Metro every day, which is more than the New York and London systems combined. We found the Metro to be very efficient, with trains arriving every few minutes.
Navigating the Metro system can be somewhat of a problem for non-Russian speaking riders. Most of the signage is in Cyrillic only, and the stations are quite large. Trying to find the correct exit while walking long distances underground can be challenging.
On our cruise tour, we rode the Metro as a group with our program director from near Victory Park under the Mockba River to Red Square. Several of the group ventured out on their own during our time in Moscow, and many rode the Metro. They all returned with stories of getting lost underground, but none seemed the worse for the experience, and they all loved telling the tales.
Red Square in Moscow is a must-see for visitors to the capital city of Russia.
The Kremlin is a favorite of Moscow tourists. Inside these walls are buildings for the government of Russia, cathedrals, and the wonderful State Armory museum.
We enjoyed a traditional Ukrainian lunch at this cute restaurant in Moscow before checking in at our hotel.
River cruise tour groups are usually divided into groups for the duration of the tour. Each group had their own bus when touring.
Although much of the military museum was indoors, there was quite a collection of planes, helicopters, missile launchers, and tanks outside.
Seven skyscrapers with layers giving them a "wedding cake" appearance dot the Moscow skyline. The style is considered Stalinist-Gothic.
Meeting with some World War II Russian War veterans was a highlight of our day at the Central Museum of Armed Forces in Moscow.
The inside of this museum is particularly impressive, but you will need a guide since all of the signage is only in Russian.
We all enjoyed exploring the shops on this mile-long pedestrian shopping area.
Food prices were high in the tourist attraction, with two small pizzas, two small beers, and a bottle of water at an outdoor cafe costing $40. Many of our group ate at the large McDonalds, where prices were more reasonable.
Female cosmonauts play an important role in the Russian space program. In 1963, Valentina Tereshkova from Yaroslavl was the first woman in space.
The area of Old Arbat had many English signs to attract the tourist trade.
This 18 meter centrifuge is the world's largest. The centrifuge weighs over 30000 tons, and the maximum load is 30 G, but most tests are run at 3 or 4 G.
A centrifuge ride is the first test for a cosmonaut, whose entire training school takes from five to eight years. The centrifuge can simulate the extreme force of gravity that cosmonauts (and astronauts) face when going into space. A centrifuge training session lasts about 30 minutes, and the trainee experiences both the centrifugal force as well as the spin of the pod he/she is riding in. Just typing this makes me a little queasy!
Just like in the USA, everyone who visits the Star City cosmonaut training center near Moscow wants to know how cosmonauts "go to the bathroom". They have more sophisticated equipment today, but this contraption from the early space flights is fairly self explanatory.
This 12-meter deep pool is used to simulate weightlessness training. The pool is flooded and the cosmonauts perform repair tasks on the model of the International Space Station. SCUBA diving underwater is very similar to the weightless experience the cosmonauts experience when working in outer space.
The original Mir disintegrated when it fell to earth in 2001. Mir, which means peace in Russian, was launched in 1986.
Yuri Gagarin was the first man in space, and the Star City Cosmonaut training center was named after him in 1968.
In case you can't tell, Yuri is the one in the middle. My famous traveling mother, Marvel Paull, is on the left and Dick, a cruise friend is on the right.
A highlight of our day in Star City was a visit with Yuri Onufrienko, a Russian cosmonaut who spent extended time in space at the Mir space station in 1996 and the International Space Station in 2001-2002. Yuri patiently took many questions from our small inquisitive group.
Cosmonauts sit in this position on take off. Thanks to Jerry G. for the tip about the sign. It says, "Don't touch!"
After 16 days of discovery, learning, and fun, we had a farewell dinner with the six Program Directors - Evgeny, Olga, Vladimir, Svetlana, Violetta, and Marina - in Moscow.
The Kremlin is a triangular, walled citadel in the center of Moscow. The Kremlin is considered by most to be the heart of the city. First conceived in the 12th century, the Kremlin (which means fortress) was expanded by Tsar Ivan III (Ivan the Great) during the 15th century. His architects designed the magnificent Cathedral of the Assumption and the Faceted Palace, and the Kremlin was an interesting mix of both Russian and Renaissance styles. During the Soviet time of the 1930s, many of the Kremlin buildings were destroyed or vandalized, and the complex remained closed to the public until 1955.
Today the Kremlin is home to the Russian President and his administration. Many buildings are open to the public, but you may need to be with a guide (check in advance).
I visited the Kremlin when in Moscow on a Russian Waterways cruise tour from St. Petersburg.
The Kremlin was also one of the 21 finalists for the New Seven Wonders of the World.  
Red Square's name has nothing to do with Communism or Soviet Russia. The old Russian word for "beautiful" and "red" was the same; the square was supposed to be called "Beautiful Square". Red Square has been the center of Moscow activity since the 16th century when the Tsar cleared the area and allowed vendors, shoppers, and businesses to fill the square. Today this square is surrounded by the Moscow Kremlin, the State Historical Museum, GUM Shopping Mall, and St. Basil's Cathedral.
Many of the important events of the last three hundred years in Russia have been marked by parades or demonstrations in Red Square. Anyone who enters Red Square will have memories from TV or movie reels of this magnificent public square. Those of us who grew up during the Cold War era can remember the parades of soldiers, tanks, and other armaments past Lenin's Tomb just outside the Kremlin Wall. The World War II generation remembers Red Square as the site of a huge victory celebration at the end of the war.
  View of Downtown Moscow from Sparrow Hills  
  Novodevichy Convent in Moscow  
  View of the Mockba River in Moscow, Russia  
  Cathedral of Christ the Redeemer (Cathedral of Christ the Savior) in Moscow  
  Vendors' Market and Ski Jump at Sparrow Hills in Moscow  
  Russian Soldiers' Memorial in Victory Park in Moscow  
  Matryoshka Dolls for Sale in Moscow  
  Central Museum of Armed Forces in Moscow, Russia  
  Grand Triumphal Arch Celebrates the Victory Over Napoleon in the War of 1812  
  Moscow Metro Station at the Ploshchad Revolyutsii (Revolution Square)  
  Moscow Metro Station near Victory Park  
  Red Square in Moscow  
  The Kremlin in Moscow, Russia  
  Taras Bulba Restaurant in Moscow  
  Buses Wait for Passengers Outside Museum  
  Military Airplanes at the Central Museum of Armed Forces in Moscow, Russia  
  Foreign Ministry Building, One of Moscow's Seven Stalinist-Gothic Skyscrapers  
  Russian and American War Veterans at the Central Museum of Armed Forces  
  Rocket Launchers and Missiles at the Central Museum of Armed Forces in Moscow  
  Old Arbat Pedestrian Shopping Area in Moscow  
  Female Cosmonaut Model at Star City Cosmonaut Training Center near Moscow  
  Souvenir Shop in Old Arbat Shopping Area in Moscow  
  Centrifuge at Star City Outside Moscow, Russia  
  Cosmonaut's Bathroom Facilities on First Space Flights at Star City  
  Star City Tank Used for Cosmonaut Weightlessness Training near Moscow  
  Mir Space Station Replica at Star City near Moscow  
  Marvel Paull with Statue of Yuri Gagarin at Star City near Moscow  
  River Cruise Passengers with Yuri Onufrienko, Russian Cosmonaut at Star City  
  Cosmonaut Space Suit at Star City near Moscow  
  Stained Glass Window at Star City near Moscow  
  Program Directors at Farewell Dinner in Moscow  
  The Kremlin in Moscow, Russia  
  Red Square in Moscow, Russia  
Visitors to Moscow can easily find things to do, and you'll quickly realize that the list encompasses more than 50 items. However, if you plan to cover at least some of the suggestions on this list, you will be able to experience Russia's capital city more fully and gain a complete picture of Moscow life and culture. The list includes sightseeing attractions, cultural activities, shopping suggestions, ways to see the city, and seasonal options. If you've never traveled to Moscow, use this list as a starting point for must-do activities.
Moscow's top sights date back centuries to its beginnings, but some sights are much newer. Include the following landmarks on your sightseeing tour. Moscow must-see sights include the Kremlin, Red Square, and St. Basil's Cathedral, but those represent only the beginning.
1. Explore the Kremlin: First-time visitors must tour the Moscow Kremlin.  The heart of the historic district of the city and the long-time seat of government, the Kremlin contains palaces, churches, museums, and even a larger-than-life cannon.
2. Visit Novodevichy Convent: The Novodevichy Convent is a World Heritage-protected site. Its famous cemetery has been the burial ground for influential Russians for generations.
3. Meet Stalin's Seven Sisters: Moscow's Seven Sisters of Stalinist Architecture remember the mid-century leader's need for Russia to illustrate its size and might. Stories tall and often described in unfavorable terms, these skyscrapers are nonetheless an integral part of Moscow's skyline.
4. Get a Sparrow's-Eye View: The Sparrow Hills overlook will give you a birds-eye-view of Moscow. Don't forget to take some photographs.
5. Pay Your Respects: Visiting Lenin's tomb is a free activity that you can do if you have the time. You'll enter the eerily lit interior, circle the embalmed form of Lenin, and then exit in the sunlight, perhaps a little bewildered. This experience will initiate you into the world of Russian political culture—a culture that is hardly dead and buried, despite the strides made in the past couple of decades.
6. Return to Red Square in the Evening: Visit Red Square, of course, but if you want to see it in its less-crowded splendor, visit in the late evening. Though it probably won't be completely free of tourists, the size and grandeur of this important landmark will become more apparent.
7. Pass the Time at Patriarch's Ponds: The infamous setting to the introductory scene in Master and Margarita, Patriarch's Ponds is nearby Bulgakov's house-museum. Visit to honor the Russian writer, or escape a scorching day by the cool water. During the winter, Patriarch's Ponds transforms into a romantic skating rink.
8. View the Cathedral of Christ the Savior: Visit the rebuilt Cathedral of Christ the Savior for a glimpse into Russian history. The tallest Orthodox cathedral in the world, it was demolished in the last century and then victoriously rebuilt.
9. Step Back in Time: Old Arbat Street is a pedestrian district a part of Moscow's historic core and maintains the look and feel of Old Moscow. Visit the Pushkin house museum, but watch out for pickpockets!
10. Marvel at St. Basil's Cathedral: The colorful symbol of Russia, St. Basil's Cathedral occupies a proud position on Red Square. Take the obligatory photo of yourself in front of St. Basil's, or enter to see its painted chapels.
11. Visit Victory Park: Victory Park is, essentially, a massive war memorial, celebrating Russia's victory in the Great Patriotic War, or WWII. Fountains—over 1,400 of them—symbolize each day of Russia's participation in this international conflict.
Cultural activities enable the visitor to enjoy the best of Russian culture. Try out some of these culture-related things to do when you're in Moscow.
1. Follow in the Footsteps of Literary Greats: Russia's literary heritage is preserved in its many author house museums, which preserve the personal effects of Russia's favorite writers and poets. Most famous literary figures spent some time in Moscow during their careers—trace their footsteps in the capital city.
2. View Moscow Masterpieces: The Tretyakov Gallery is the foremost museum of Russian art in the world. It houses priceless works that appear in every fundamental text about Russian art. View portraits of historical figures, famous landscape scenes, and illustrations of cultural life in Russia through the centuries.
3. Go Big at the Bolshoi Theater: The Bolshoi (Big) Theater is a classic venue for ballet and other performances, known the world over. Under renovation for the past few years, the Bolshoi is hosting performances once again.
4. Find Fine Art: The Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts is Moscow's best museum for non-Russian art. Works from ancient Egypt and Rome through the 21st century are represented here.
5. Attend a Concert or Performance: As in any big city, the calendars for Moscow's theaters and concert halls are always full. The Moscow International Performing Arts Center is one venue that hosts a variety of performing arts and musical concerts through the year.
6. Mull Over Modern Art: Artists have been attracted to Moscow's art scene for centuries, from the icon painters who decorated the cathedrals of ancient Muscovy to painters like Kandinsky, who changed the art world with his abstract “musical” works. Artists in Moscow continue to push the envelope with innovative artistic endeavors that shock and wow. You can view the work of established contemporary artists at the Moscow Museum of Modern Art, or you can pop into any one of the art galleries with the work of up-and-coming artists for sale.
7. Space Out: Russia is been proud of its space travel achievements, and the technologically savvy and interactive Cosmonaut Museum introduces visitors to its cosmic victories.
8. Improve Your Spirits: Moscow's Vodka Museum educates about Russia's favorite spirit. Learn about the history and making of this clear beverage that staves off the cold in the dead of winter.
9. Brush Up on Your Russian: Though many Russians know at least a little English, practicing your Russian language skills can be satisfying. Russians may be amused, grateful, or delighted with your attempts, even if they respond to you in English. Use simple phrases with wait staff at restaurants or shopkeepers to warm up your skills before attempting to dive into conversation.
10. Treat Yourself to Russian Tea: Russian tea culture differs from Western tea-drinking practices. The samovar takes center stage, and the potent zavarka is added a little at a time to each cup. If you see a samovar at your hotel or a traditional Russian restaurant, take this opportunity to use it.
11. Participate in Russian Traditions: Russians have been honoring their heritage in the same way for generations. Take part in Russian traditions to understand Russian culture a little better.
You can't avoid eating in Moscow, not that you'd want to! Once you try Russian food, you'll want nothing else!
1. Dig into Traditional Cuisine: Russian food is comforting and delightful, with hearty meats, light dill-seasoned salads, stick-to-your-ribs dumplings, and more. Authentic Russian cuisine is usually served with dense black bread and generous amounts of butter.
2. Drink Like the Russians: Russian vodka is famous the world over for its flavor and potency. Sample this readily available, highly affordable national beverage when you're in Moscow for the authentic experience.
3. Develop a Taste for Russian Beer: Did you know that Russia produces many domestic beers? Sample some Russian beer while you're in Moscow and discover a new favorite.
4. Picnic in the Park: Moscow's a city with easily accessed green spaces. Summers can be hot, and locals take advantage of parks to beat the heat. Follow their lead and take a snack to munch on under a shade tree.
5. Get Brain Freeze: Russians love ice cream, especially in the dead of summer. Russian ice cream is less creamy and more icy than western-style ice cream, and you can buy it from street vendors and convenience stores everywhere you go.
6. Gorge On the Go: Stuffed blini (Russian pancakes), kvas (a faintly alcoholic fermented beverage), hot potatoes with a variety of toppings, and other tempting quick bites can be had at street-food kiosks around Moscow. Most recommended? Blini filled with chocolate sauce, of course.
Enjoy unique seasonal activities year-round. Most people only consider travel to Moscow during the summer, but the other seasons offer plenty of things to do, too.
1. Celebrate Spring With the Moscow Easter Festival: The Moscow Easter Festival is a musical celebration of the Orthodox Church's most important holiday. A highlight of the festival is the bell concert, during which cathedral bells are struck to produce melodies that carry through the early spring air and resonate with intensity.
2. Kiss Winter Goodbye During Maslenitsa: The Maslenitsa farewell-to-winter festival takes the pent-up energy from the long, cold winter and expends it in a thrilling festival of games, food, drink, and Russian traditions. Stack your plate high with Russian pancakes and enjoy this pre-Lenten feast.
3. Check Out Moscow Events: Look forward to annual events in Moscow that introduce you to aspects of Russian culture.
4. Have Fun Whatever the Weather: What month are you traveling to Moscow? Weather often dictates what activities you will be able to enjoy in Moscow. Check out festivals and holidays for seasonal things to do using the Moscow month by month guide.
5. See How Russians Celebrate Christmas: Christmas in Russia is less of an affair than is New Year's Eve, but Moscow follows the West's suit by decorating fir trees with rows of lights and getting into the spirit early even though Orthodox Christmas doesn't occur until January 7.
6. Go Green: St. Patrick's Day is a big deal in Moscow. Though the fate of the annual parade hangs in the balance, some type of celebration is guaranteed to be on the week of March 17th.
7. Make New Resolutions: New Year's Eve in Moscow is an even bigger holiday than Christmas. Red Square becomes packed with celebrants who drink vodka to stay warm in the freezing temperatures. But you don't have to ring in the new year in the cold—plenty of private parties are hosted around the city during this night.
8. Have a Holiday on Holiday: Russian holidays offer a particular set of things to do, from Victory Day parades to Maslenitsa celebrations.
9. Skate on Ice: Russians love ice sports, ice skating included. Ice rinks spring up around Moscow for the winter season, and they are regularly enjoyed by everyone. The most famous is the one erected in front of GUM every year, but Patriarch's Ponds also serves as a rink when the ice becomes thick enough.
10. See Ice Sculptures: Ice sculptures can be seen year-round at the Gallery of Russian Ice Sculpture. In the coldest months, ice sculptors will take their art outdoors and create impressive glittering statues out of ice.
11. ​Weather the Cold: The Moscow Winter Festival is a celebration of the coldest season of the year. Ice sculptures, games, and other associated events make this festival an anticipated occasion.
Moscow's shopping opportunities are many more than those listed here. But if you want to get a feel for Moscow—and shop at the same time—these suggestions will get you started.
1. Go To GUM: The GUM State Department Store off of Red Square has a long history, but it is now a gallery of luxury goods shops. Browse this shopping center to visit a Moscow institution, or duck into it to avoid unpleasant weather.
2. Shop at Izmailovo Market: Izmailovo Market is where dozens of vendors sell matryoshka dolls, khokhloma art, fur hats, shot glasses, paintings, embroidery, and more. You can shop till your heart's content and snag souvenirs, gifts, and conversation pieces.
3. Know New Arbat: Moscow's New Arbat Street is the 20th-century counterpoint to Old Arbat Street. Lined with high-end shopping and dining establishments, Novy Arbat represents “new” Russia just as Old Arbat symbolizes past times.
4. Be a Bookworm: Moscow's giant bookstore, Dom Knigi, is a great location for picking up Russian-language souvenirs. Best-selling English-language books translated into Russian, Russian-language classics, and dictionaries can be purchased here.
5. Seek Out Souvenirs: Shopping for souvenirs of your stay is always fun, whether you're looking for folk crafts, military memorabilia, books, clothing, jewelry, prints, or other memories of your trip to Moscow. Keep an eye out for small gifts you can share with family and friends, decorative items for your home, or quirky reminders of Soviet Russia.
Not in the mood to spend money?
6. Save Save Some Cash: Free things to do in Moscow are available—you just have to know where to look.
See Moscow from the river, underground, or while on tour if you're looking for something to do in the Russian capital city.
1. Enjoy a Boat Cruise: Taking a boat cruise down the Moscow River will show you another side of the city, and you'll enjoy a perspective of important landmarks not available any other way.
2. Break the Ice: The exciting Moscow icebreaker cruise allows visitors to enjoy a boat cruise even when the Moskva River is frozen over in the dead of winter. The boat plows through the inches-thick ice that forms in sub-zero temperatures while guests dine and enjoy the views of Moscow.
3. Learn About Moscow From the Locals: An interesting and unusual opportunity awaits you with the Moscow Greeter organization. This group of volunteer guides offer their services for a couple of hours completely free of charge in order to show visitors how Muscovites live and work.
4. Ride the Metro: The Moscow metro is an incredible network of underground rails connected by architecturally splendid stations all designed around a theme or style. Called “people's palaces,” the Moscow metro stations are memorable sights.
5. Take a Guided Tour: If you're a first-time visitor to Moscow, a guided tour will introduce you to the city's main sights and significant historic events and personages.
  11 Sightseeing Attractions in Moscow  
  11 Cultural Activities in Moscow  
  6 Things to Do for Foodies in Moscow  
  11 Seasonal Activities in Moscow  
  6 Things to Do for Shoppers in Moscow  
  5 Ways to See Moscow  
One of the things I love about cruises is also one of the things I hate about cruises--this marvelous vacation option often allows travelers to see many countries on just one trip, providing a sample of things to see and do on a return visit. The most popular river cruises--those through central Europe--include stopovers at amazing ports, but usually in several different countries. Some river cruises (like those in France, Portugal, and China) focus on just one country, enabling passengers to immerse themselves in the culture, language, history, and sites of one country, but still visiting many different ports of call.
Travelers seeking an in-depth vacation in another fascinating, important country should plan a river cruise in Russia. I sailed on the Viking Truvor with Viking River Cruises on "Waterways of the Tsars", a 13-day river cruise tour from St. Petersburg to Moscow. This voyage included three nights in St. Petersburg; six days sailing of Russian rivers, lakes, and waterways with stopovers in Mandrogy, Kizhi, Goritzy, Yaroslavl, and Uglich; and ending with three nights docked in Moscow. The cruise tour included most all shore excursions and wine, beer, or soft drinks at lunch and dinner. I came away from Russia with a new appreciation for its people and its history, and realized that much of what we know about this huge country from the daily news might not necessarily be the whole story.
The next 32 pages provide a comprehensive story of our time in Russia. Wishing to avoid the summer crowds seen in northern Europe, a friend and I sailed on the next-to-last voyage of the year on the Viking Truvor, which boarded in St. Petersburg on September 26 and debarked in Moscow on October 8. The number of visitors in St. Petersburg was significantly less than you will find in the high season, and the weather was cool, but not miserably cold. Although long summer days in northern Europe where the sun sets after midnight are a big attraction to visitors, those who enjoy less crowds and don't mind taking along a coat should consider a September sailing in Russia.
Join me on an in-depth look at Russia with Viking River Cruises.
St. Petersburg is one of the world's great cities to visit, with much interesting history, but also many artistic venues. Peter the Great founded the city in 1703 during the Great Northern War with Sweden, which is not the same as the War of Northern Aggression in the USA.
Geographically, the city is very important to Russia, since it is the country's only port on the Baltic Sea. Peter the Great was enamored with Europe, especially France, so the city has a European look, especially with its 200 miles of canals. Many of the buildings are painted in pastel colors since the city has only about 50 days a year where the sun shines. Citizens of St. Petersburg claim that their city weather is 9 months of expectation and 3 months of disappointment. The weather is certainly very changeable since the north winds can plow into the city and bring major storms.
We arrived in St. Petersburg in the late afternoon and were met by a Viking River Cruises' representative at the airport. The transfer to the Viking Truvor was uneventful, and we got settled into our cabin, had a quiet dinner, attended a welcome briefing for those who arrived late in the afternoon. The river ship has three onboard guides/tour leaders, all from St. Petersburg. They all speak excellent English and were our licensed guides in St. Petersburg and act as tour leaders/escorts/translators on the rest of the trip. All the guides are men, and all are middle-aged. Therefore, they remember both the Soviet Union prior to 1991 and Russia as a republic today. Interesting group, all who changed jobs in mid-career. They started out as engineers, but are tour guides today, a decision they apparently made themselves, something the generation of their parents were unable to do.
The next three days in St. Petersburg were busy ones.
We hit the ground running the next morning. Twenty-three of us on the Viking Truvor had signed up for the "privileged access" optional tour of the Hermitage Museum. This meant we left the ship at 9 am and arrived at the Hermitage by 9:40. The museum doesn't open to the public until 10:30, so we were well ahead of other visitors. Our guide Natalya was very knowledgeable. She had attended William & Mary College in the USA and has a doctorate in linguistics. She teaches at the St. Petersburg State University.
The rest of our fellow cruise travelers did the included morning tour of the Hermitage, followed by lunch on the ship and free time in the afternoon. The Viking Truvor was docked fairly close to a subway stop, and the onboard staff was very helpful in providing guidance on navigating the city on your own.
The Hermitage is now a great museum, but this building was once the winter palace of the tsars. It was built by Catherine I, the wife of Peter the Great. The style of the Hermitage is Russian baroque, and many experts consider it once of the world's best examples of this style.
The Hermitage Museum was much quieter than it can be in the summer. Coming in late September  turned out to be a wise choice. Our smallish group could easily move throughout the many interconnected buildings. This is one place that would be easy to get lost in--the Winter Palace (largest of the buildings) has 117 staircases, 1057 rooms, and is 328,000 square feet. Its exhibition rooms house 3 million exhibits. It's nice to have a guide to help sort it all out. One change since my last visit--they moved the impressionists' paintings into a new space, which was much more spacious than before.  Even though I'm not an art expert, it's mind-boggling to see so many famous artists' works in one place.
After visiting the main Hermitage complex and walking around in the Palace Square, we reboarded the bus to ride to the "storage" area of the Hermitage. The museum cannot display all the items in its possession in the main complex, so many items are stored offsite in a well-guarded warehouse area. It was Sunday, so none of the artwork restorers or other workers were there--it was just us, Natalya, and a local guide who spoke only Russian that Natalya translated. (we think he understood English, but was not comfortable speaking it). Before touring the complex, we had the same lunch served to the workers that day (or so we were told). It was Greek salad, borscht, chicken with rice, potato fingerlings, and a flaky pastry filled with jam. Julie and I both liked it, but a couple of people complained at our table that the chicken was dark meat. A minor complaint, and a mixture of white and dark chicken seemed more authentic for a Russian cafeteria lunch. The borscht had a beef broth base, shredded beets, and a small dollop of sour cream. We don't think it had any cabbage unless it was in the broth base. Still very good.
After our "light" lunch, we toured the Hermitage storage complex. Many of the exhibits were stored in huge glass cabinets that were on tracks and could be slid apart. We saw many religious icons, but Julie and I enjoyed the furniture and the royal carriages the most. Interesting tour, and the first time I've been to that facility.
All too soon it was about 4:30 and time to return to the Viking Truvor for a concert, dinner, and a night at the ballet.
Although it's great being able to unpack just once on a 13-day Russian river cruise vacation, the river ship docking area in St. Petersburg is at least 30 minutes to an hour (or more) ride from the central city. With traffic, it's even worse. The Viking River Cruises staff on the Viking Truvor seemed to know exactly how much time we needed to keep our tight schedule--factoring the day, time, and weather into the equation. We also saw horrendous traffic in Moscow, and the staff continued to show an uncanny ability to predict the drive times. I commend them on their excellent planning.
Since the Hermitage Museum storage facility was fairly close, we were back on the ship by about 5:00. The schedule for those on our extended tour didn't allow us much time to attend an onboard Mariinsky Theatre music concert in the Panorama Bar from 5 to 6, have a quick buffet dinner, and leave for the ballet at 6:45.  Four performers from the theatre performed an excellent selection of classical numbers. What a nice way to get in the mood for our night at the theater.
But, most of us from the privileged access tour seemed to suffer from the FOMO (fear of missing out) syndrome and were back on the bus at the scheduled time ready to ride to the Mikhailovsky Theatre to see the iconic Russian ballet Swan Lake.
The buses left for the theater promptly at 6:45 pm, driving back into town for the 7:30 performance, going against traffic most of the way. This was a different theater than the one mom and I went to several years ago--the seats in the auditorium were larger and padded,  versus narrow and wooden. Not surprisingly, the performance of Swan Lake was as excellent as I remembered from before. Most of us know that Russia is well-known for its ballet dancers, and these representatives were amazing.
Back to the Viking Truvor, they had a nice late evening snack for us, so we were eating soup and other "light" fare at about 11:30 pm. In bed by midnight or later--it was all a blur by then.  Our next day in St. Petersburg was another busy one--a half-day at the Catherine Palace followed by a half-day city tour.
The next day on the Viking Truvor was another busy day, and we were still jet-lagged, so the alarm woke us from a sound sleep. Our first tour was an 8:00 am included tour to Catherine Palace, the summer palace of Catherine I (Peter the Great's wife). He had built a palace on the shores of the gulf of Finland, but she thought it was too windy and cold, so she had her own palace built. Her daughter Elizabeth greatly expanded the Russian baroque palace. It's certainly very grand, with its blue, white, and gold exterior.
Located less than 25 miles from St. Petersburg, the palace was occupied by the Nazis in World War II and used as a barracks and offices for the bombardment of the city during the siege of Leningrad (St. Petersburg's name during the war). During the siege, the city was encircled and cut off from the rest of the world and bombarded for 872 days. Our guide told us that over 2 million people died during the siege That's a  huge number of deaths and amazing that the city held out without ever being invaded.
Before retreating, the Nazis burned most of the great palaces of Russia located near St. Petersburg, and the Russian government has been working since the late 1940's to restore them. Luckily, most of the artwork, chandeliers, furniture, and everything not attached or very heavy was moved to Siberia, so the Nazis didn't succeed in burning much but the structures. Russia had many photos and drawings of the palaces, so they are slowly being renovated. The living area at Catherine Palace has been mostly renovated, but the attached church has not. The famous Amber Room was redone in the early part of this century after the Russians gave up on ever finding the original amber, which they couldn't hide or move before the Nazis  arrived because of its weight.
We put on the required booties to cover our shoes and protect the gorgeous parquet floors, many of which use up to 16 different types of wood. The palace is very ornate, with many huge rooms done with lots of gold leaf. Too fancy for my taste, but impressive. The grounds are also lovely, with manicured gardens. It's an impressive place, and definitely a "must-see" in St. Petersburg.
After touring the inside of the Palace and exploring the grounds, we returned to the Viking Truvor for lunch and an afternoon tour of the central city of St. Petersburg.
After a delicious buffet lunch on the Viking Truvor, we re-boarded the buses and headed out again for a city tour from 1:45 to 7 pm. Most of the central city tour of St. Petersburg was on the bus, with frequent photo stops. The only place we toured inside was the Peter and Paul Cathedral and Fortress, which has the graves of all the past Czars of Russia and their families. Two of the last Romanov children, killed with their parents in 1917, have not been buried with Alexandra and Nicholas II Romanov (their parents), but our guide said they had been identified using DNA and were expected to be added to the family tomb in a few months. Even Anastasia's remains were definitely identified using DNA a few years ago, although I'm sure there are some who still think she survived the massacre of her family.
Viking River Cruises had an alternative city tour that was included in the basic fare. This tour was mostly walking (over 5 miles) in the city center, but did not include the Peter and Paul fortress, which is on the other side of the Neva River. Those who did that tour liked it, especially since the rain held out until almost the end of their walk. Their group rode the subway into the city, which was fun for those who hadn't done it.
Our group on the bus saw more and didn't get wet, but we had horrendous traffic on the way back to the Viking Truvor. However, we still arrived at 7 pm for dinner, followed by an optional Cossack folklore show.
After dinner on the Viking Truvor, Julie and I had signed up for a 9:15 pm to 10:45 pm Cossack Folkloric show, which was held in a temporary enclosure right on the pier. We were very happy not to get back on the bus. The ship provided blankets to help us keep warm.
The folkloric show was good, with live music and about 10 dancers (5 couples) and a few musicians. Lots of costume and music changes, so we managed to say awake. They had a 15 minute intermission where we all drank shots of vodka to rejuvenate and heat us up. This was not our only opportunity to drink shots of vodka, as we would see other times on this river cruise.
Another late night--after midnight when we got in bed. It takes many days to get over jet lag when coming to Russia from the USA!
The next morning I awoke and threw open the curtains to find the same view of the past three days. We had slept on the Viking Truvor for three nights and still hadn't moved! I'm glad we had lots of time in St. Petersburg to see so much of the city and surrounding areas, but was anxious to sail that evening and see some of the Russian countryside.
Julie and I had our umpteenth tour scheduled--this time an optional tour to Peterhof Palace, which was built by Peter the Great in 1714 during the Great Northern War. Peter had visited Versailles outside Paris, and he wanted his summer palace to rival it. I actually like the exterior of it better than the Catherine Palace because of its wonderful system of fountains and location on the Gulf of Finland. We left the ship at 8:30, so still had to get up early.
Peterhof is about 23 miles or so from St. Petersburg and sits on the southern shore of the Gulf of Finland on a huge track of land, all of which is either park or landscaped gardens and fountains. The expansive baroque building is very long like the Catherine Palace, but is yellow rather than blue. Most of the rooms are ornate with lots of gilding, but Peter's study looks much like a man's den would today (except no computer or high def TV). No photos are allowed in the palace and guests must wear the booties to protect the parquet floors. This palace was also destroyed by the Nazis during World War II, but much of it has been renovated, although lots more is still closed.
At 11 am each day during the summer (before October 1), the Great Cascade of fountains is turned on and the many gilded sculptures sparkle in the sun (when it is shining). Our group toured the palace with a guide and then had free time to explore on our own. Julie and I got a good walk in before rejoining the group at noon on the bus to ride back to the ship. We didn't have any traffic on the return ride, which was a nice surprise, and we were back in time for lunch.
The lunches have been very good, and we often get a Russian dish as a selection from the menu. We've especially enjoyed the fresh salads and soups. We actually had a relaxing lunch  since our afternoon tour of the Faberge Museum didn't start until 2:45.
The afternoon tour (our fourth optional tour along with the extended Hermitage tour, Peterhof Palace, and the Cossack dancers/musicians) was to the new Faberge Museum, which only opened in 2014. This museum is located in the old Shuvalov Palace in downtown St. Petersburg. This palace has been completely renovated and is almost as spectacular as the private museum, which is not funded by the government.
Russian billionaire Victor Vekselberg (one of the richest men in Russia) bought the 9 Faberge eggs and 180 other pieces for $100 million from the estate of Malcolm Forbes in 2004. He set up a private foundation to exhibit the eggs and to continue to bring other Russian artwork back to Russia. Only 43 of the 50 Faberge eggs made for Nicolas II and Alexandra between 1885 and 1917 survive today, most in the hands of private collectors. Those on this tour saw more Faberge eggs at the Kremlin Armory in Moscow, but the presentation there is not as good as this new museum since you can't view the eggs from all sides or get as close.
It took over a decade to plan, renovate, and set up the Faberge museum, and it's a beauty. The nine eggs are the centerpiece of the collection, which also includes beautiful silver serving pieces, jewelry, paintings, and "curiosities" that the Russian tsars loved. One of the loveliest eggs is the Lilies of the Valley Egg seen in the photo above. This egg was a gift from Tsar Nicholas II to his wife Alexandra in 1898. It is made of gold, ivory, enamel, and glass, with precious stones like diamonds, pearls, and rubies.
The entire exhibit is spread over several rooms, and they don't permit more than 15 people at a time in each room, which allows for easy viewing from all sides of a piece of art. The museum continues to expand, and already has over 4,000 works of decorative and fine arts.
We were especially impressed with the way the paintings were exhibited. The rooms with paintings were very dark, except each painting had its own spotlight with a frame around it that only allowed the painting to have light on it. The result was that each painting looked like a giant ipad or like it was back-lit. Spectacular presentation, and the guide assured us that the lights would not damage the paintings. There were a couple of giant urns in one of the rooms that had the same type of gorgeous lighting, and the painting or urn showed up so much better in a spotlight surrounded by darkness.
Leaving the Faberge museum, we rode back to the Viking Truvor, arriving about 6:30 pm (because of traffic).
Viking also offered an optional tour to a Kommunalka, one of the remnants of Soviet Russia where families came together to live/work. Some of these communes still remain, and tour participants get to enjoy tea, cakes, and conversation with the residents.
We quickly changed clothes and went to the Captain's party at 7 pm when we sailed away from St. Petersburg. They introduced all the major department heads, most of which we already knew. It was already dark when we sailed, but we could see the suburbs of the city as we sailed up the Neva River towards Lake Ladoga, Europe's largest lake.
After the cocktail party, we went to dinner and ate with four retired school teachers about our age. Fun evening, followed by time spent in the Sky Bar listening to music and watching some of the couples dance. One of the other women and I tried a shot (really a double shot) of the Russian Standard vodka, one of the most popular Russian vodkas. At $2.90, it was a great price, especially since diet cokes are $3.20 (except at meals, when they are free like wine/beer). I may learn to like sipping vodka. Probably good I was going home in a week or so.
At 10:15 pm, we went outside to see the ship pass by the famous Russian Oreshek Fortress at Shlisselburg, a town at the junction of the Neva River and Lake Ladoga. It is normally spotlighted in the evening, but for some weird reason it was not. We could see the silhouette/outline of the fortress on the shore of the junction of the lake and the river, but that was all, so we went to bed, knowing we didn't have to set an alarm the next morning.
Everyone slept in a little on our fifth day on the ship. It was a treat to open the curtains and see the countryside with its autumn colors starting to show.
The Viking Truvor entered Lake Ladoga about 10 pm on Tuesday night and crossed the lake to where the Svir River ran into it. Lake Ladoga is Europe's largest, covering over 7,000 square miles. By 4:30 am, the Viking Truvor was off the lake and on the Svir River, cruising towards our first port of call, Madrogy.
Starting about 4 am, we got into really rough water, and I woke up about 4:15 as we were tossed back and forth. The ship hugged the shoreline, so guess we were lucky that we didn't cross directly or it might have been worse.
I slept until about 8:30 and just went and ate a continental breakfast before going to the first of two lectures that morning at 10 am.
Tour guide Misha did the lecture on "Russian and Your Cruise", which highlighted the geography, climate, political structure, culture, crimes, freedoms, and other items of interest to visitors.
I found it very interesting and Misha addressed most of the misconceptions we all have of Russia. For example, he said that most visitors think Russia is covered with ice and snow and surrounded by KGB. This isn't true, except for parts of northern Siberia, where there is lots of snow, ice, and KGB. He was very entertaining and a little self-deprecating (made fun of Russia, but also very proud to be a citizen).
All of the topics were interesting to me. Russia certainly is bordered by many diverse countries, some of which are not so desirable like Iran and North Korea. Misha said (tongue in cheek) that Russians were very proud that their neighbor North Korea was so popular and in the news almost every day all over the world. Russia has open borders with all its former Soviet Union partners, much like the countries in the European have with each other.
The population of Russia is only 143 million--very low for the world's largest country. About 80 percent are Russian. Other large ethnic groups include the Tartars (Mongols) who conquered Russian 700 years ago. Misha joked that the Mongols still remember it; they are now assimilated but speak their own language. The country also has Inuits in Siberia, Ukrainians, and many other small groups. One problem Russia has always faced is that the Europeans don't think Russians are European, and the Asians don't think they are Asian. So . . .they have kind of "stood alone". The Russian joke is that Asians are crows, Europeans are peacocks, and Russians are turkeys.
Another tidbit is that Russians love President Putin, who has an 89 percent approval rating. (Wouldn't all American politicians salivate over that one!) Misha believes he could be elected forever, with two terms as president followed by a term "away" since their new constitution (done in 1991) doesn't allow more than two consecutive terms. Russia believes they copied the "best" parts of the USA and English governments in setting up their republic when the Soviet system failed. In 1991, the communist party was only 10 percent of the new parliament, but now it has grown to 20 percent since the majority parties have not delivered on their promises. Putin started out as an independent, but is in the United Russia party now. As in most countries, politics is a popular discussion topic in Russia.
I think many Americans would be surprised by the number of freedoms that Russians have that they didn't previously enjoy. For example, Misha said he could listen to one radio station in his car praising Putin as great, push another button, and hear how he was a devil. So, freedom of speech has certainly improved in the past 25 years. Russians are also free to travel, with the most popular destinations being those that don't require a visa like Egypt, Turkey, Thailand, and Israel. Many Russians don't have the funds or the political savvy to fill out the complex USA visa request form. (It's a quid pro quo form--if we have 50 questions, so do they; if they add one more, we add one more, etc.). Plus, many who fill out the form and pay the high fee are turned down for no reason, so give up even trying.
When I traveled to Egypt, I learned that Russia and Egypt had a deal about the Aswan Dam. Russia built the dam and in exchange, Russians can travel to Egypt and stay for much less than they would even in their home country. Misha said a week in Egypt (including air) was about $500 for Russians, versus about $1,500 to travel to the warm part of Russia on the Black Sea.
One other fact about Russia concerns religion. The communists shut down most of the churches and looted the icons and any other worthwhile items. Religion has returned in the past 25 years with a vengeance. Most citizens are Russian Orthodox, but the second biggest religion is Muslim. All other Christian churches are also in Russia, along with Jewish, Buddhist, etc. One woman rabbi passenger on the ship visited Russia right after the fall of the Soviet Union when there were no synagogues. While in St. Petersburg, she and her husband did a private tour of some of the Jewish synagogues, schools, etc. with a local rabbi and she came away very impressed with the changes.
Another big change in the past 25 years is the capitalist system now in place. Russians now have the right to have private property. In the new capitalist country--80 percent of businesses are privately owned; with only three industries completely owned by the government. These are aerospace (airplanes and outer space), all military ships and icebreakers, and nuclear power plants. Misha said that the nuclear plants had seven layers of security and that the western books and movies about nuclear materials being stolen in Russia was just fiction. Hope he is right.
He was very educational and anyone traveling to the country should try and learn something about the basics.
Our next lecture was on Russian Food and Souvenirs, presented by Alexye. He talked about famous Russian foods like borscht (beet soup), pelmini (small dumplings shaped like ears and filled with meat or other stuffing like Chinese dumplings), and sauerkraut with cranberries and baked chicken. We had a Russian dish or two each day on the ship. One memorable dish was a lamb soup with rice called Kharcho, although I have to admit the cookies were my favorite.
Russians love appetizers, especially when accompanied by vodka. However, one of Russia's most  popular drinks is Kvas, which is made from fermented rye. It is very low in alcohol and young people drink it in place of colas. During Soviet times, it was stored in yellow barrels and milk was in white barrels and then handed out to kids. Coca Cola and Pepsi now both sell their own Kvas in Russia to introduce young ones to their products.
Russian caviar from wild sturgeon is prohibitively expensive since the population of fish was almost wiped out. All caviar now comes from "farm-raised" caviar.
I thought it was interesting that many of the Russian desserts were modeled after similar ones in France. Guess it shouldn't have been surprising since the Tsars were so enamored of the French.
Alexye also discussed buying Russian souvenirs and the best places to buy them. Anything in a shop or retail store has a fixed price, but if buying in a kiosk or on the street from a vendor, it's okay to bargain, especially if you are buying multiple items. This makes sense since the shop workers usually aren't the owners and aren't authorized to sell at a price lower than what is marked (like in the USA). Street vendors are working independently and might bargain.
One word of caution is that you cannot take old icons out of Russia, so anyone who buys one will probably have it confiscated at the airport. Icon painting was a popular art in Russia prior to Soviet times. However, when religions were prohibited and many of the icons destroyed (or hidden), these painters had to find a new craft. Many of them turned to painting lacquer boxes. Four different schools of painting are located near Moscow, and knowledgeable lacquer box fans can distinguish them. Russian fairy tales were the first to be represented on the boxes (replacing religious themes), but now you can find landscapes and other pictures. Of course, since the early 1990's, icon painting has returned, so the lacquer box painters now incorporate religious themes. Those who love to paint can appreciate the patience, steady hand, and good eyes (and good microscope) required to paint with only one bristle on your brush!
I wasn't buying an icons, but appreciate the lecturer telling us the importance of buying a new icon (made in the last 25 years) in a church shop rather than a retail store or street vendor. Why? Icons sold in church shops are "100% blessed"!
Many of us think of Matryoshkas (nesting dolls) as the stereotypical Russian souvenir and representative of Russian culture. Julie and I saw some nesting dolls in a store with 19 different dolls nested! This type of handicraft has only been in Russia for about 100 years and the shape was copied from the island of Honshu in Japan. In addition to the traditional Russian woman, the nesting dolls feature USA presidents, Russian tsars and presidents, the Jackson 5 singing group, and almost every type of sports team imaginable (baseball, football, soccer).
After the two lectures, it was time for lunch and then docking in the Svir River town of Mandrogy (also spelled Mandrogi). This little town is on a narrow peninsula and features artists who specialize in making wooden products, pottery, jewelry, painting, crocheting, music instrument making, metal working, and many other handicrafts. Mandrogy was completely destroyed in World War II and even disappeared from maps. In 1996, an enterprising capitalist rebuilt the town with wooden buildings/houses as a place for Russian tourists (and now others) to stopover when cruising between St. Petersburg and Kizhi.
Most of us just explored Mandrogy on our own for the 3.5 hours we were there. However, the ship did have two optional excursions. The first was painting your own Matryoshka doll, which didn't interest me since I had done one before and it was embarrassingly bad. The second was the opportunity to visit a traditional Russian banya for a Nordic bathing experience. I'm not a spa fan, so decided to skip, but my adventurous friend Julie went and loved it.
Julie and I explored the town of Mandrogy for about an hour before her banya appointment. The shops were in old wooden buildings with very low doors and high stoops, so entering each building and each room was a challenge to not trip or bang your head. The crafts were amazing and we watched a jewelry maker work using a microscope to make her delicate wares and the musical instrument maker carving an instrument. We also saw a woman spinning wool and of course some painters. Very interesting. Also many Christmas ornaments, woolen shawls and scarves, lacquer boxes, fur items (many in our group bought fur hats) and other Russian folk art.
I walked with Julie to the bathhouse/sauna and left her with the group. There were six women in the group, and the sauna was extremely hot. After a while,  a man came in and poured water and eucalyptus to make steam. While they were steaming, he hit them with a bundle of birch tree branches (with leaves). Julie loved this part. He then took them to a small room next door where he poured a cold bucket of water over their heads. She said it was shocking, but exhilarating. They did this a couple of times and then served tea and cookies. Some in the group (including Julie) then jumped in the river for another thrill. Julie explained part of her temporary insanity by saying that one of the women in the group who jumped in was 80 and another 70. Both of these "seniors" went in the river, so she did too.
While Julie was experiencing the Russian/Nordic bath, I walked around the little town of Mandrogy  and stopped in at the Vodka Museum. The entry fee of 250 rubles (less than $5) included a tasting of four different vodkas--not a bad deal!
I had run into some fellow travelers from our ship also going, so we enjoyed the tasting together. The first vodka was "classic", the second "honey and pepper", the third "smooth", and the last one was "cloudberry". I liked the smooth one the best, although the cloudberry would be great for sipping since it was milder. The shop was filled with hundreds of different kinds of vodka. Never dreamed there were so many.
Most vodkas are made from grain, but a few are made from potatoes.  Vodka has been commercially distilled in Russia since the 9th century and was first called the national drink in the 14th century. One of the most familiar vodkas, Smirnoff, was produced by Russians who immigrated to France.
By the time I returned to the Viking Truvor, Julie was already back and had taken her shower. The ship sailed from Mandrogi about 4 pm and we went to a briefing on the optional tours in Moscow at 5 pm.
At 6:15, we had a "meet your neighbor" get together in the hallway outside our cabin. They  staff served sparkling wine and hors d'oeuvres, and the captain walked around and toasted with us. This impromptu party only started in 2015 and is only on the Viking Truvor. One of the guests suggested the get together when he and his wife learned the last evening on the cruise that their neighbors on the ship lived only about 3 miles away from them in the USA. This passenger suggested that they institute a way to get to know your ship neighbors in case they were also your home neighbors. It was fun since we have met many folks, but not necessarily those across the hall or next door.
At 6:45 we had the daily briefing, followed by dinner. With an early day the next morning in Kizhi, we went on to bed.
The next morning we awoke in Lake Onega--Europe's second largest lake with almost 4000 square miles. We had been in the largest lake in Europe just two days before. Lake Onega definitely looked like a glacial lake, with 1,650 islands left behind as the glaciers plowed the valley. Very scenic, and the trees were almost (not quite) peak, with lots of brilliant yellows, but also some green. Not many red trees in late September.
The Viking Truvor arrived at Kizhi Island in Lake Onega about 8:00 am and had a tour at 8:30. Don't feel bad if you've never heard of this place, even though it's a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Kizhi Island's claim to fame are its wooden churches and other buildings that date back to the 15th century. The largest church on the island is the large Transfiguration Church, with 22 domes. This church is the "summer church" since it's not heated. What makes it impressive is that no nails or other metal were used in the construction--just wood. In addition, no saws were used to cut the wood, only an ax. The 300 year old church hasn't been open in over 30 years and is under significant renovation now. Evidently several years ago the building was completely covered and then fumigated to kill the bugs in the wood. However, after fumigation, it started deteriorating even faster.
The second large church on Kizhi is the smaller "winter" church, which is heated. It is called the Intercession Church and only has nine domes. It is right next door to the "summer church" and still used, but has a sad history. In 1937, Soviet soldiers drug the two priests from the church and killed them right on the steps. Many of the icons were preserved and are still inside, which is open to the public.
Legend says that the two churches were built by one man who left no written drawings or plans. He just used his axe (not even a saw). When he completed the project, this unknown builder threw his axe in the lake when he finished the construction since there was not or would be any to match them.
Most of the whole island is part of the World Heritage Site, and there are other wooden buildings on the site, including the world's oldest all-wooden church (a tiny one with one dome) and a traditional house of the region that shows the low doors and that the family slept downstairs and had the animals in the attic upstairs (animals used a ramp to go outdoors). Sure makes you appreciate the southern part of the USA. Looked a little like something out of "Little House on the Prairie", but much colder and remote.
At least the rain held out until after we left Kizhi. We actually had a sailaway party outdoors at 10:30 am on the "sun deck" from the island where they served hot gluhwein and shots of vodka. The two Phillipino entertainers sang and played music, and we all got into the dancing a little.
After leaving Kizhi Island and having a fun sailaway outdoors on the sun deck, the rest of the day we spent on the Viking Truvor. We could be as busy or as lazy as we chose.
The ship had several planned activities to keep us occupied. First, the Executive Captain gave a nautical talk at 11:30 followed by a bridge tour. It's always fun to learn more about how things work on a ship.
Lunch was another good meal. We especially enjoyed the salads and the freshly made pasta. However, we also tried many of the Russian soups, which have been good in the cool weather. Of course, since I love all things Mexican, I tried the quesadilla and chili con carne one day. Both were good.
In the mid-afternoon, we had a Russian tea (complete with samovar for the tea). They had some pastries/cakes, but many of us tried the blinis (pancakes) with sour cream and jam. Very yummy.
I went to the late afternoon briefing on the Romanov dynasty, and their history was as convoluted as most royal families. Many different people, different relationships, and way too many murders. I had read Catherine the Great's biography a few years ago, so wasn't completely befuddled, but I'm sure some of the other attendees were.
We had the daily briefing by Catherine the cruise director. She is excellent, originally from Germany, but has been sailing in Russia with Viking for 9 years. Her nickname is Catherine the Great, and she is amazingly funny/witty.
Viking had the past cruiser's party before dinner. They served a shot of aquavit to celebrate the Norwegian heritage of the company, although their first river cruises were in Russia.
Dinner was another excellent meal. I had a salmon carpacchio and grilled salmon main course. Both were excellent. They also had reindeer on the menu, but I knew it wouldn't be as good as Ronnie's venison (and I love all things salmon).
The Viking Truvor had to pass through six locks during the night as we moved south from Lake Onega into the Volga-Baltic Waterway.  Fortunately, we slept right through it.
We sailed on the Volga-Baltic Waterway most of the morning before arriving at Kirillo at noon. It was nice to sleep in, but we also had another presentation on Russia's history from 1900 to 1985. This story covers the fall of the Czars, the creation of the Soviet Union, and the lead up to the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Interesting presentation, with some spins I'd never heard before from our Russian guide.
After lunch of another nice Russian soup (this one cabbage) and salad, along with a small helping of their delicious fresh pasta, we had a shore excursion from Goritzy to the monastery at Kirillo. The Viking Truvor had docked at the tiny village of Goritzy during an early lunch. As we walked to the buses for the eight mile ride to Kirillo, we had to walk through a number of shops selling the usual souvenirs--lacquer boxes, nesting dolls, etc. The best item to buy at Goritzy is fur, so a number of women bought fur hats, but I passed.
It was a short ride to the Kirillo-Belozersky Monastery. We had a local guide who didn't speak English well (but she understood it), along with our onboard guide Alexey, who translated for her. She told us the winters were much harsher in Kirillo than in St. Petersburg along the coast. When she said they were even worse than the nine months of expectations and three months of disappointment in St. Petersburg we realize this must be a popular Russian joke since we had already heard it a few times before.
The monastery was founded in 1397 by two monks, but it actually looks more like a fortress, with its thick walls and many ports for aiming arrows or guns at oncoming enemy soldiers. At one time, many pilgrims made the trek to Kirillo-Belozersky and made huge donations to support the monastery. Ivan the Terrible was a frequent visitor and helped the monastery to grow with his donations.
By the end of the 17th century, the complex consisted of two monasteries and eleven churches. At one time there were over one thousand monks. Today there are five. In 1764, Catherine the Great took the land and much of the property away from the Monastery and turned the main building into a prison. In 1924, the Bolsheviks closed the monastery. Surprisingly, they did not turn the facility into a gulag for political prisoners as they did many of the other church facilities.
The complex of buildings is impressive, but most visitors today come to see the many icons that were saved from the Bolsheviks. These are in a museum section under glass to protect them from the elements. Many Russians (and Greeks since they are also eastern orthodox) believe that icons are like the Gospel in paint and were used in ancient times to teach the illiterate.
Leaving the Kirillo-Belozersky Monastery, we next went to visit a nearby school where our local guide was a history teacher. The school had about 800 students and over 50 teachers. The school  had all grades except kindergarten in one building. It was fun to see the eager young faces and help them practice their English, which was much better than the handful of Russian words we had learned. Some of the students gave a musical performance, and we got a tour of the school and some of the classrooms. 
Back to the Viking Truvor river ship by 3:45, we had a Russian cooking class where we learned to make Russian dumplings called pelmeni. The executive chef chose two sous chefs from the onboard guests. The presentation was great fun, especially when he kept taking breaks to have them drink vodka with him. I quickly determined he was drinking water and they were drinking vodka since each had their own bottle. However, they manage to make the dumplings and then we tasted some made earlier in the galley. Very good.
I skipped the second Russian language lesson since I decided it was hopeless. At 6:45 we had the daily briefing with Catherine, followed by a Russian dinner.
The dinner was very good, with many Russian dishes. Our table tried several and shared. At 9:30 we had the vodka tasting in one of the lounges, always a popular event on Russian itineraries. Each table had several plates of food to accompany the vodka--vegetables, pickled herring, pickles, ham, sausage, and bread. We tasted six Russian vodkas, and the assistant maitre'd led the tasting. She taught us a new toast with each vodka, plus showed us different ways to hold and drink the shot. The four of us at our table just had our shot glasses filled half-way each time since we all had wine with dinner. The room got louder and louder after each round. We tried a standard vodka, a premium vodka, and flavored vodkas. All were interesting, but only the first could be bought outside of Russia. Fun time, and we weaved (just a little) on the short walk back to our cabin.
The good news was that we didn't have any planned activities (except breakfast) before a 9 am lecture, that was repeated at 10:15, and no shore excursions until we arrived in Yaroslavl at 3:15 pm.
The next day, we had no activities off the Viking Truvor until 3 pm--just lectures on Russian government and history and one on future Viking Cruises. I had heard that Viking River Cruises was coming to the Mississippi River in 2017, but had not heard that the company was also going to sail on the Amazon River in South America. With 62 ships and several more on order, the company continues to grow rapidly, which is great news for the traveling public.
Had a leisurely breakfast and lunch, and didn't arrive in Yaroslavl (pronounced Yaroslal--the v is silent) until about 3 pm. We had a nice tour of the city on a bus and on foot, visiting the important sites (mostly churches) in the old sector of this city of 600,000 residents. Old town Yaroslavl is a UNESCO World Heritage Site with 140 architectural monuments, many of which are 17th century churches.
Before Soviet times, Yaroslavl had about 54 places of worship operating. The Soviets destroyed over half of these, and at one time, only two held services. Today (after Peristroika), Yaroslavl has about 30 places of worship in the four main religions in Russia--Russian Orthodox, Islam, Jewish, and other Christian denominations). The importance of Yaroslavl's churches is reflected by the Russian government featuring a picture of the Church of Saint John the Baptist (which we didn't tour) on its 100 ruble (about $1.55) note.
Our first stop was at the old Governor's House, which is now the Museum of Fine Arts. We toured the house with one of the "daughters" of the governor dressed in a realistic costume from the 17th century. After touring the palace, we had a concert in the giant ballroom with a pianist, violin, and cello followed by 3 couples demonstrating dances from the era. Of course, after they danced, they found someone from our group to dance with. Very fun.
Our next stop was at the Yaroslavl market in the downtown area. We were surprised to see the chef from our ship passing out samples of local cheeses. Always fun to tour the markets everywhere we visit. Julie and I didn't buy anything, but many people bought spices and nuts.
Back on the bus, we rode a few blocks (good walkers could tour all the old town area on foot, but would have missed the narration from a local guide) to the Church of Elijah the Prophet (Russian Orthodox). This yellow brick church has five blue-green domes. I never realized that the "onion domes" (as we call them) are actually supposed to look like candles. I like that term better, and they do look more like candles than onions.  The Church of Elijah the Prophet was built in 1647 to 1650 by wealthy fur traders. In addition to the five domes, the church has a bell tower and a tent roof tower on top the side chapel. The church also has some lovely gardens.
The interior of the Church of Elijah the Prophet has beautifully preserved, vibrantly colored frescoes covering its walls. The frescoes were commissioned in 1680 and depict the life of Elijah the Prophet and domestic life in 17th century Russia. The most discussed fresco is one that shows farmers harvesting grain in a field. This type of activity had previously not been allowed in churches since the frescoes were supposed to only reflect religious topics. Having the peasants working showed that work was worthy. While we were in the church, services were ongoing (it was Saturday night and this church has services morning and night). Interesting to see a small part of the service--only male priests, but women singing in the choir.
Our last stop was at another church, the new Cathedral of Transfiguration, which was finished in time for Yaroslavl to celebrate its 1000th anniversary in 2010 (the city was founded in 1010).
One of the richest men in Russia donated over $100 million to build this new cathedral on the site of where one was destroyed by the Soviets. Since it's in the old district, UNESCO was not happy for a new structure to be added to the old town. They finally approved the church (it's in the old style), but wouldn't allow a bell tower, so the bells are on brackets that sit on the ground. I got the impression from our guide that it was lack of money as much as UNESCO's displeasure that prevented the building of the bell tower.
Before entering this church, we went into a small building next door for a two-song concert by four male singers. They sang a religious song and the "Song of the Volga Boatmen", which I think everyone probably recognizes. These singers were not monks like those in St. Petersburg, but they were also selling their own CDs. I'm not sure where they find these men with such unbelievably bass voices. They are able to reach low notes I've never heard!
After the very short concert, we went inside the new Cathedral of Transfiguration. Like the Church of Elijah the Prophet, they had a service ongoing, so we got to see it and be blessed by the priest who walked around with his incense burner. Some of the priests looked very young, so religion must be returning to Russia.
Before riding back to the Viking Truvor, we walked along the riverfront promenade to see an overview of a large park on the peninsula that lies between the two rivers of Yaroslavl--the Volga and the Kotorosl. This lovely park features a huge flower bed in the shape of a bear--the symbol of Yaroslavl--plus the current year. The flower bed is replanted each year with the new year.
It was about 6:45 (and already dark) by the time we got back to the ship. Amazing how much you can do in about 3 hours.
Another nice dinner (I had a Caesar salad and grilled perch and ice cream) before heading off to bed. Decided not to go to the Liar's Club game in the bar, although I'm sure Catherine the cruise director and the other liars would be hilarious.
The Viking Truvor sailed for Uhlich about 7 pm and sailed overnight, arriving in Uglich early the next morning.
We were off the Viking Truvor at 8:15 in Uglich, which is on the Volga River and our last stop before Mocow. We had three activities in Uglich--a home visit, a tour of the lovely old churches that sit in a park-like setting on the river near where we were docked, and about an hour of free time to shop in the souvenir market. When I opened the curtains to our balcony when we woke up, we were surprised to see something missing in the sky--clouds. The sun was shining (not overcast), and it was cooler than it's been--about 40--but it warmed up quickly with the sun.
They divided us into groups, and our group did the home visit first. Sixteen of us visited Tatiana, a middle-aged woman who used to work in a bakery, but retired 3 years ago. She and her husband, who works in the Uglich milk plant, have two grown sons and a daughter, along with two grandchildren. She didn't speak English, but we had a local guide, Olga, who translated for her. We took a local bus to our host's home. It was a stand-alone structure, smaller and older than homes in Georgia, but neat and tidy, with a private garden filled with black, rich, dirt all of us would envy along with flowers and vegetables. We also noticed a satellite dish on the side of the house.
We all sat at a large table in her living room and weren't too surprised to see we were served some heavy snacks (even though it was only 8:30 in the morning). Like all Russians, Tatiana started the visit with a toast of homemade "moonshine" vodka. The one she served had raspberries in it and was quite tasty for an early morning nip. We had rye bread, homemade pickles, homegrown buttered potatoes, and homegrown tomatoes to accompany the vodka, and then hot tea and some delicious, very light cake afterwards. Tatiana insisted we try a few shots of the vodka, but most of us made those after the first one to be mini-shots. We toasted to new friends and peace. Very nice, despite the hour.
Leaving Tatiana's, we reboarded the bus and rode back to downtown Uglich to visit the two gorgeous historic churches that sit on the Volga. The first was the Church on Spilled Blood of Prince Dmitry the Martyr. Prince Dmitry was the youngest son of Czar Ivan IV, who is better known as Ivan the Terrible), who died in 1584.
According to our guide, Ivan wasn't really that much more "terrible" than other rulers of the 16th century, although he did institute a reign of terror starting in 1560 after his wife Anastasia died. He earned the nickname "grozny", which actually means "awesome" in Russian, but has been incorrectly translated as "terrible". I can see why Ivan might be called terrible since he killed his oldest son (and heir) with a blow to head. The two men were fighting because Ivan thought his son's wife (his daughter-in-law) was dressed too risque for a pregnant woman and said something to his son. The two men started fighting, and the son died.
Back to Dmitry. Dmitry was epileptic, but his older brother Feodor was "enfeebled", and many thought Dmitry might someday rule Russia. However, Feodor was being manipulated by his brother-in-law, Boris Godunov. Eight year old Dmitry was visiting Uglich when he was found dead. Officially, his death was ruled an accident because they said he threw himself on his sword during a seizure. However, his neck was cut many times, which makes an accidental death seem very unlikely, doesn't it? (Experts seem to be split on this issue, so they are no help.) Dmitry's mother blamed Boris Godunov, and soldiers killed 15 of his men, including a Moscow official. Since the death was subsequently deemed accidental, Dmitry's mother was sent to a remote convent to be a nun. This story is depicted in the Church on Spilled Blood of Dmitry, which was built on he site where he died.
We also saw the remains of the Kremlin (fortress) of Uglich from the outside before going inside the Spaso-Preobrazhenskly Cathedral, where they were having Sunday morning services. (It is also known as the Transfiguration Cathedral.) Like Greek Orthodox churches, everyone stands for the services (except the old and/infirm who have a handful of chairs to sit on). Since services last 2.5-3 hours, it can get very long, but this "suffering" is part of the service.
Our tour ended at the shopping area, where we had plenty of time to shop and there were ATM machines nearby. Lunch back on the Viking Truvor was a terrific Russian buffet.
As we left Uglich, we had a sailaway party up on the top deck with hot chocolate and live music. The Viking Truvor passed through a large lock at Uglich as we moved south towards Moscow. Our first all-sun day continued the rest of the afternoon, so we were hopeful for our time in Moscow. It was a gorgeous day to be outside, and we all enjoyed seeing more of the Russian countryside along the Volga River.
While sailing on Russian waterways, we saw a few sunken churches such as the one in this photo. The Church of Kalyazin see in the photo above and the Krokhino Church are two of these. Both churches were flooded when the Soviets dammed up the Volga and other Russian rivers to make the Volga-Baltic Canal system.  If you look closely, a giant satellite dish is in the background of the photo. Quite a contrast to the ancient church, isn't it?
While sailing south on the Volga River, we had the last history talk on President Putin. More new information about him and his government, and definitely a different perspective. I loved hearing a Russian perspective on events where I had only heard the perspective of the western media. All topics were on the table, and we had some lively discussions.
Like in St. Petersburg, we would be very busy in Moscow, so we had the farewell dinner with four more nights on the ship . Really a nice dinner with excellent presentation. I think I haven't mentioned the nice amuse (tiny appetizer) that is served with each each dinner before the appetizer. This time, it was salmon caviar on top of a spoonful of mashed potatoes (how Russian!). Then, I had the smoked butterfish on the top of an apple and celery salad, a chicken-noodle type of soup, grilled salmon with vegetables and a Hollandaise sauce, and a marvelous chocolate dessert. Julie had the liver pate for appetizer and the beef tenderloin for her main course, and we split our main courses.
After dinner, we watched a preview of the onboard video that could be bought and provided on a thumb drive at the end of the trip. The videographer captured one or more photos of everyone, given the response of the crowd.
Soon it was time for bed. We didn't arrive arrive in Moscow until lunch, but have a very long tour of the city that doesn't get back to the ship until about 9:30 pm.
The next morning we awoke on the Moscow Canal still sailing towards Moscow. We had our daily briefing along with the disembarkaion information since we would be very busy in Moscow like we were in St. Petersburg.
After the briefing, the three tour guides had a question and answer session for about an hour. Many of the questions they couldn't answer because they didn't know, and many were about the future of Russia, which would be like asking us about who we thought was going to be elected in our next election. Some of the questions they skirted, and I don't think it was because they thought the ship was bugged or that there were KGB (now called FSB) agents onboard. I still found the discussion interesting and was surprised how some of our fellow guests had put together such complex questions.
We arrived at the "Port of Moscow" about noon and left the ship at 1:30 for our included bus tour of downtown Moscow. The city's traffic is supposedly the worst in the world, and I think we'd all agree. It took us an hour to get downtown from the port. The driving tour was a highlights view of the city, and we saw many sights from the bus that we would see later in the afternoon on foot. We first stopped near the Novodevichy Convent for a potty break. You had to walk down a couple of flights of steps, but the facility must have had about 15 toilets. (Viking is very good about providing lots of toilet breaks--at least every 2 hours).
Next, we drove to see the view of Moscow from Sparrow Hill, the highest point of the city. We could see Stalin's seven huge apartment/government buildings he had constructed in the 1930's. These seven tall buildings are very grand and look like the Empire State building in shape, but are much shorter and have large "wings" on either side. They are nicknamed Stalin's "Seven Sisters", and are a good example of Soviet architecture. They are spread around the city and at one time they had the red star of the USSR on the top and many other statues honoring Soviet leaders to remind people of their government.
Although all USSR citizens in the socialist state were considered "equal", some people were more equal than others (according to more than one guide). Those who were more equal (such as celebrities, friends/relatives of high-ranking politicians, and rich people) were provided large apartments in one of these seven large buildings of Stalin, while others were often in communal living quarters called Kommunalka. A family would share a large room (without any interior walls) and would also share a bathroom and kitchen with others in the commune. This sounds awful, but was better than nothing, and the price was zero since the government was providing.
Back on the bus, we rode to a Metro station to ride on Moscow's famous subway that carries 7 million people per day. It's a huge Metro system, with the first lines being built in 1932. What makes it interesting is the artwork included in the stations (especially the ones built in Soviet times). The stations are huge and elegant, with long escalators and art deco lights. The one where we boarded was a new station built in 2004. It had a large mural on one wall celebrating Russia's victory over Napoleon. We all crammed into one car and rode 4 stops, exiting at a station near Red Square with 76 large bronze statues honoring the Russian people. This is one of the older stations in the system and was used as a bomb shelter during World War II (the Great Patriotic War). Like much of the priceless artwork in St. Petersburg and Moscow, all the statues in the Metro stations were moved to Siberia during the war for protection.
Red Square looked much the same as it did when I visited 8 years before. However, since it was getting close to dark (sunset is about 6 pm in early October), the large GUM shopping mall was all lit up and very pretty. 
We had about an hour at Red Square before meeting up with the group to go to the Classical Folklore Concert that started at 7 pm. I walked around the Square, making sure to get a photo of famous St. Basil's Cathedral, and browsed in GUM for a bit. Like many other cathedrals in Russia, the Soviets confiscated St. Basil's in the 1920's and thought about destroying the historic church, but decided to turn it into a secular museum.
We had been given a box snack before leaving the ship and then had a late dinner when we returned, so we ate our snack while riding the short distance to the theater. The snack included a sandwich, water, apple, and a bag of crab-flavored Lay's potato chips, which tasted better than they sound, but I'd never buy them.
The Russian Folk Orchestra Moskva concert was a highlight for us all. Talented young musicians played a variety of woodwind, string, and percussion instruments like the balalaikas, domras, accordian, table harp, etc. Amazing music. We all loved it. They also had an opera singer who did 3 or 4 songs. The performance lasted about an hour and a half.
We got back to the Viking Truvor river ship about 9:30. Traffic was still horrible, but we survived. They had a full dinner (order from menu) when we returned. In bed by midnight. Two more full days in Moscow were ahead of us with lots to see and do.
Our second day in Moscow was a day for the Viking Truvor guests to either select one of the optional tours (extra cost) or to just explore the city on their own using the huge metro system, public bus, taxi or on foot. The Viking River Cruises' staff is quite knowledgeable about Moscow, and they will provide maps and/or directions to visit almost anywhere in the city.
The optional tours included a visit to the Old Tretyakov Gallery, with its Russian artwork and icons from the ages; a visit to the Cosmonaut Museum, where the history of space exploration is demonstrated (from a Russan perspective); Moscow by Night, a bus and river cruise tour of the old city center than ran from 9:30 pm to 12:30 am; a free shuttle bus that took guests into the city center for free time at 10 am and brought them back at 4 pm; and a tour of a Russian submarine that was commissioned in 1980 and decommissioned in 1998.
Many did the full day "on your own" bus since we had a taste of downtown Moscow on Monday, and several more did the half-day Tretyakov gallery tour and then just stayed downtown afterwards and either rode the bus or the Metro back to the ship. Our ship was just a few blocks away from the last stop on the dark green Metro line, so was fairly easy to find as long as you got on the subway going the right direction. Several just rode the subway both directions since it was a reasonable price.
Julie and I wanted to do something other than visit an art museum, and didn't feel like going back into the city, so we thought the submarine tour might be fun. This tour was only 3.5 hours, and we could see the submarine docked on the other side of the canal from our balcony on the Viking Truvor. Another added benefit--it only ran from 10 am to 1:30 pm, so we didn't have to get up too early.
Only 10 of us did the submarine tour--6 men and 4 women. We had a nice escort who translated the guide's Russian into English. The submarine served in the Russian Navy from 1980 to 2000 and had diesel engines, not nuclear, so could only stay below the surface running on batteries for less than a week. The submarine was a Tango-class and its name is the Novosibirsky Komsomolets. The ship never fired a torpedo except in practice. The tour was interesting and similar to those of other submarines I've been on (only smaller).
Before the Russians turned the submarine into a museum, they removed 70 percent of the equipment and material on the inside so that tourists could walk around. They also made some regular doors (rather than round hatches) for tours to walk through. The sub had a crew of 78 with about a dozen officers. Other interesting tidbits--only 2 toilets for the 78 men; only 1 shower per week with only salt water that was heated just a little; men could only brush their teeth with salt water; some of the officers had their own cabins, but the enlisted men had to sleep in the 28 beds available or in hammocks. Some of the men who worked in the torpedo room also slept there and had to call and ask someone to open the hatch to go use the toilet or to eat. The food on all submarines was the best in the Russian navy, and every man got a daily ration of caviar, chocolate, and red wine (for health purposes). 
After touring the submarine and checking out a retired vehicle that was called the ekranoplan, screen ship, or ground effect vehicle, we went inside a simulator to have a Disney-World-like experience on the ground effect vehicle that flew a maximum of 30 feet over the water (or land).
The screen ship was like a sophisticated hover craft, but could carry 180 soldiers with their supplies. When we did the simulator (complete with bouncing seats and a dizzying IMAX video), one of the guys in our group commented that the vehicles (the USSR only built five) would have come in handy at the Normandy landings. Unfortunately, the first screen ship was launched in 1989 and the program was discontinued with the break up of the USSR in 1991. Our guide said there was a rumor in Russia that Yeltsin had given the technology to President Clinton, but the USA didn't fund it either. The five screen ships were never used except in training exercises.
We were back on the ship by 1:00, and after lunch walked about 10 minutes to a shopping area at the nearest Metro station. The ship had maps, and it was an easy walk. There was a shopping mall, McDonalds, and large grocery store at the Metro, and Julie and I loved exploring the area, especially since we felt like we were with "regular Russian people". The grocery store had a wide variety of all sorts of items (much more than we thought Russians had), and the mall had shops appropriate for the middle class folks. These shops were different than GUM, which had all the designer names we see at upscale malls.
Although Moscow is the second most expensive city in the world, a big Mac at McDonalds was priced at about $2 and a regular hamburger was less than $1. Fun couple of hours, and then we had the rest of the afternoon to relax before dinner.
Another good dinner on the Viking Truvor, followed by our optional evening tour of Moscow. Since we knew it would be cold, we put on all our clothes and left the ship at 9:30, first riding back to Sparrow Hill for an overview look at Moscow at night. Most of the buildings were illuminated, and the city is beautiful. Next, we went to Red Square to see it at night. GUM Department Store was lit up and had huge spotlights on the Kremlin Wall, making its red brick walls gleem. Our last stop was on the Moscow River, where we boarded a small river boat for a 50-minute tour by water for a different look at the sights. We about froze since we sat outside so we could see better and take photos.
Left the boat about 11:30 pm and were back on the ship by midnight--still lots of traffic, but no snarls. In bed after a cup of hot chocolate, with a 7 am wake up call for our last full day in Moscow--a tour of the Armory and the Kremlin.
Our last full day in Russia was a memorable one. The Viking Truvor had an included tour in the morning that visited one of Moscow's most important sites, the Kremlin.  Many people think that the world's only Kremlin is in Moscow, but the term means "fortress" to Russians, so most old cities had a Kremlin. The Moscow Kremlin is triangular in shape, walled, and in the center of the city.  The first Moscow Kremlin was built in 1150 and was a wooden wall around the city.
This 3.5-hour included tour visited the highlights of the Kremlin, but not the Moscow Kremlin Armory Museum that houses the priceless treasures of the Tsars. The Viking Truvor had a special optional 5-hour tour that saw everything in the Kremlin the included tour saw, but also spent over an hour in the Armory, which is inside the walls of the Kremlin.
We opted for the Kremlin tour that also visited the Armory. After seeing the Faberge eggs at the Faberge Museum in St. Petersburg, we wanted to see the ones in the Armory. Unfortunately, no photos can be taken inside the Armory, but along with the Faberge eggs, it features the Crown Jewels of the Tsars, armor and weaponry, carriages, gifts to the Tsars from other countries, crowns and clothing of the Royal Family, and many items of gold, silver, and precious jewels. The State Armory has over 4,000 of these priceless items.
It's well worth the extra cost, and we needed more time to absorb all we were seeing.
Leaving the Armory Museum, our guide showed us the various churches inside the walls of the Kremlin.  These red brick walls are tall and connects 19 guard towers. One wall of the Kremlin faces Red Square, the second runs along the Moscow River, and the third faces a park.
The Cathedral of the Annunciation is just one of three major cathedrals inside the Moscow Kremlin.  This 15th-century Cathedral was the royal chapel of the Tsars, and its icons and interior are spectacular.
The 15th-century Assumption Cathedral was once the most important church in Russia, serving as the state and cultural center of the country for over 600 years. It is also called the Cathedral of the Dormition. This cathedral was the site of coronations and royal weddings.
The 16th-century Archangel Cathedral was rebuilt after Napoleon's troops destroyed the original, using it for firewood. This cathedral has amazing frescoes and the tombs of 46 princes and emperors who ruled Russia for over 300 years.
While walking around the Kremlin, we also saw the official residence of the Russian President, but President Putin maintains a primary home elsewhere in Moscow.
Our last stop inside the Kremlin was at the Ivan the Great Bell Tower, which was the tallest building in Moscow until the 19th century.
Two "must-see" items near the Bell Tower are the Tsar Bell and the Tsar Cannon.
With all the gold, gilt, and ornate interiors of the cathedrals and armory inside the walls of the Moscow Kremlin, it's interesting that two other items are on most visitor's "must-see" lists. The first is the Tsar Bell, which is the world's largest bell, but has never been rung. It weighs over 200 tons. The bell was destroyed in a fire during the early 18th century, but was re-cast in 1737. During this process, another fire broke out, and water was thrown on the bell. Since it was hot, it cracked and broke. The Tsar Bell is useless, but it's a nice tourist attraction.
The Tsar Cannon was cast in 1586 and weighs about 40 tons. The cannon has ornate decoration and is primarily a piece of art, although supposedly it actually works. Some say it was fired at least once, but modern-day cannon balls are too big for the Tsar Cannon. Like the Tsar Bell, it is primarily used for photo opportunities.
We returned to the Viking Truvor in time for lunch. The river ship had two optional tours in the afternoon. The first was a visit to the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts, which has one of the largest museums of European art in Russia.  The second optional afternoon tour was to the Jewish Museum, which uses modern technology to provide a look at Jewish life in Russia.
Julie and I decided to stay onboard, pack, and get ready to fly home early the next morning. We had a quiet drink in the Sky Bar before dinner and sadly said farewell to the excellent staff onboard the Viking Truvor and the new cruise friends we had met onboard. 
We awoke to a surprise our last day on the river ship--snow! We knew that it snowed in Russia in October, and were delighted to see some flurries as we boarded our bus for the airport. The snow meant we had to have our plane wings de-iced, but it was worth it to see Russian snow (even if it was just a little!). Perfect send off for our group of Viking River Cruise travelers.
Viking River Cruises does an exceptional job of providing an in-depth look at many of Russia's most important sites. This cruise tour included most of the hightlights of St. Petersburg and Moscow, but also allowed guests to see some of the small towns and countryside of western  Russia.  The superbly-organized tours reminded me of my trip to China with Viking. Everything ran on time and the guides were knowledgeable and helpful.
I would certainly recommend a Russian river cruise with Viking River Cruises to anyone who wants to see a diverse piece of this huge country.
As is common in the travel industry, the writer was provided with complimentary cruise accommodation for the purpose of review. While it has not influenced this review, About.com believes in full disclosure of all potential conflicts of interest. For more information, see our Ethics Policy.
  Days 1 and 2 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - The Hermitage Museum  
  A Visit to the Hermitage Museum and Storage Facility  
  Day 2 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - A Night at the Ballet  
  A Night at the Ballet in St. Petersburg  
  Day 3 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Catherine Palace and City Tour  
  Day 3 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - City Tour of St. Petersburg  
  Day 3 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Cossack Folklore Show  
  Day 4 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Peterhof Palace  
  Day 4 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Faberge Museum  
  Day 5 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Lake Ladoga and the Svir River  
  Russian and Your Cruise Lecture  
  Russian Food and Souvenirs Lecture  
  Shopping in Russia  
  Day 5 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Mandrogy  
  Day 5 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Mandrogy Vodka Museum  
  Day 6 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Kizhi Island World Heritage Site  
  Day 6 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Afternoon after Kizhi Island Tour  
  Day 7 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Goritzy and Kuzino  
  Day 7 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Visit to a Local School  
  Day 7 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Onboard Russian Food and Drink  
  Day 8 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Yaroslavl Overview  
  Yaroslavl  
  Day 8 in Russia with Viking River Cruises- Yaroslavl  
  Day 8 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Yaroslavl Walk Along the Rivers  
  Day 9 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Home Visit in Uglich  
  Day 9 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Walking Tour of Old Uglich  
  Day 9 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Uglich Locks  
  Day 9 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Sailing on the Volga River  
  Day 10 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Moscow City Tour  
  Day 10 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Red Square  
  Day 10 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - St. Basil's Cathedral  
  Day 11 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Tour of Russian Submarine  
  Day 11 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Screen Ship Simulator  
  Day 11 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Moscow by Night  
  Day 12 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - The Kremlin  
  Day 12 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - The Kremlin  
  Day 12 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - The Tsar Bell and Tsar Cannon  
  Day 13 in Russia with Viking River Cruises - Conclusion  
With nearly 7 million riders per day on its 16 lines, the Moscow Metro is the sixth-busiest metro system in the world as of March 2019. Riding the Moscow Metro, however, does not need to be a stressful experience. In fact, it's by far the easiest and most enjoyable way to get around Moscow, especially since many Moscow Metro stations are veritable works of art. Our guide to the public transportation will teach you how to ride the Metro and more.
Here is some essential practical information you need to know to easily and seamlessly ride the Moscow Metro.
The Moscow Metro has achieved internet notoriety — and not just because of how busy it is. Several Moscow Metro stations are distractingly beautiful, including:
Although it's technically legal to take pictures within the Moscow Metro, guards might approach you if you spend too long photographing a particular station, or use professional equipment like a tripod. Be as discreet as possible to avoid an uncomfortable confrontation!
In addition to the (mostly) subterranean transport offered by the Moscow Metro, Russia's capital is home to a number of aboveground transport options. This includes a large network of buses, as well as trams and "trolley buses." While these are all cheaper than the Moscow Metro, they also require some command of Russian to use; the ordinary buses are also subject to sitting in Moscow's terrible traffic.
In terms of payment, your Moscow Metro ticket isn't valid for transit to any other form of transit, though a Troika card will allow you to do so seamlessly. Likewise, while the various Aeroexpress trains (between Sheremetyevo Airport and Belorussky Station, Domodedovo Airport and Paveletsky Station and between Vnukovo Airport and Kievsky Station) feature modern vehicles and offer fast, reliable connections to Moscow's major airports, these lines are not considered to be part of the Moscow Metro system.
As noted earlier, the Moscow Metro is technically organized by "Zone," with the center of Moscow being occupied by the "A" and "B" zone. Again, you shouldn't worry too much about this. If you're hanging out in the parts of the city, you probably speak enough Russian to be able to ask a local for advice!
The bad news? It is exceedingly unlikely that a taxi drive in Moscow will speak English. The good news? Uber works in Moscow as of March 2019, which means that if you have the app installed on your smartphone (and a Russian SIM card, which you can pick up at Moscow Airport), your next Moscow ride is basically a matter of plug-and-play.
Russia also has a number of homegrown ride sharing apps, though these aren't as ubiquitous as Uber — they also don't have good English-language interfaces. If you're interested in learning more about them, in any case, be sure to visit the websites of InDriver or Taxi Maxim. Keep in mind that many of these applications require Russian credit cards, or a Russian bank account to pay for rides.
Security-wise, the technological aspect of using ride sharing apps in Russia makes them relatively safe. On the other hand, taxis have a dodgy reputation at best. If you do end up needing to take a taxi in Moscow, make sure to use a registered car. The ones waiting at the airport stands are generally legitimate; within the city limits, try and have your hotel call a taxi to be safe.
Traffic in Moscow is reliably awful, to say nothing of how difficult navigating the city's serpentine network of ring roads and one-way streets can be. However, if you do want to rent a car in Moscow (or in Russia, more generally) there are some facts you should keep in mind.
Documentation wise, it's not officially necessary to carry an International Driving Permit (IDP) — your US driver's license will work, at least if you plan to drive in Russia for less than six months. However, it might serve you well to get an IDP (you can apply at your local AAA office) for peace of mind. In Russia as in the US, you drive on the right side of the road; gas costs about 40 rubles per liter, or about $2.40 per gallon.
Another potential downfall of renting a car of Russia is the threat of interactions with Russian traffic police. While this doesn't put you in any mortal danger, there is a chance you'll have to bribe your way out of any confrontation, which outside the center of Moscow or other Russian cities will almost certainly necessitate some Russian language or body language skills.
Regardless of whether you take the Moscow Metro or any of the other transportation options listed here, these general tips for getting around Moscow will serve you well:
The Moscow Metro is easy to use—once you get the hang of it. After all, more than two billion trips take place across its rails every year. If it were difficult, this simply wouldn't be possible! Want to learn more about things to do in Moscow? Make sure to check out this guide to Red Square, which is both the geographical and cultural heart of Moscow (and arguably Russia).
  How to Ride the Moscow Metro  
  Beautiful Moscow Metro Stations  
  Other Moscow Public Transit  
  Taxis and Ride Sharing Apps  
  Renting a Car in Moscow  
  Tips for Getting Around Moscow  
Fares: Moscow Metro fares start at 55 rubles for a one-way ticket, which is good for five days after purchase. You'll pay more if your journey takes you outside of the central Moscow zones of A and B, though this is not the case for most tourists.
How to Pay: Cash is the only way to buy a one-way ticket. However, if you have Apple Pay or Samsung Pay, you can tap your phone directly at the ticket gate and enter using NFC technology. You can also use both mobile payments and credit cards to top-up your reloadable Troika card.
Routes and Hours: The Moscow Metro has 13 lines that snake and criss-cross the city, plus outer and inner loop lines that string them together, as well as a monorail. The Moscow Metro is open from approximately 5:30 a.m. to 1 a.m., and trains run with a frequency that can range between 1 and 7 minutes.
Service Alerts: Download the official MosMetro app on the AppStore or Google Play.
Transfers: Regardless of how you pay to enter the Moscow Metro, you can transfer to any of the core lines plus the Moscow Monorail without passing through an additional ticket gate. If you wish to transfer to bus lines, airport trains or other rail services, paying with Troika or your mobile device might be more convenient.
Accessibility: Although Moscow Metro is impressive and modern in many ways, it is not very accessible. Visitors who use wheelchairs should try to avoid the subway and take aboveground transportation instead.
Aviamotornaya: Brilliant gold themed to the flight of Icarus.
Komsomolskaya: Bright yellow ceilings and murals chronicling Russia's journey to independence.
Park Pobedy: Modern station (built in 2003) with colorful murals; one of the deepest metro stations in the world (276 feet below ground!).
Ploschad Revolutsii: Constructed in 1938 at the height of Soviet pride, this station is home to bronze statues that locals still rub for good luck.
Moscow's city center is very walkable. Unless you're visiting on a bitterly cold day during the middle of winter, many of Moscow's attractions are close enough together that you could walk. For example, you can easily walk from Red Square to Gorky Park, Bolshoy Theatre, Pushkin State Museum of Fine Arts, the Kremlin or simply along the Moskva River.
All roads lead to Red Square. Although Moscow is not a grid-pattern city, it is relatively organized. The majority of major roads start and end at Red Square; the rest are circular ones that connect the "spokes" from Red Square. With this basic idea in mind, it's pretty difficult to get lost in Moscow!
Moscow's awful traffic means that rail is usually the quickest option. Even if the physical distance between two places is shorter by car, traveling via the Moscow Metro is probably going to be quicker.
English signage in Moscow has greatly improved over the years. On the other hand, familiarizing yourself with the Cyrillic alphabet before your trip to Russia probably wouldn't be a bad idea. If you need to push someone out of the way (spoiler alert: you probably will!), say izvineetye (sorry) to excuse yourself.
Petty theft is common, especially during rush hour. Wear your backpack in front of your body, and don't keep large amounts of cash (or your smartphone!) in your back pocket. Hide any conspicuous signs of wealth to avoid being a target!
Travel to Moscow during winter is a unique experience—you won't lack for things to do and see. Russians are experts at making the Moscow winter season fun and festive, so whether you are outdoors braving the chilly temperatures or indoors and safe from the cold, there are a variety of activities to keep you busy during this time.
In winter, Moscow is home to exciting winter festivals and incredible ice sculptures, not to mention plenty of opportunities for skating and cross-country skiing.
Ice skating rinks are plentiful in Moscow during winter. In the heart of historic Moscow, there is an ice rink in front of the GUM department store in Red Square every year. In fact, there are more than 45 ice rinks in Moscow. Other popular ice skating rinks can be found at Gorky Park, Sokolniki Park, Izmailovsky Park, and Patriarch's Pond. Gorky Park usually features the largest artificial ice rink. It is so large that it is estimated that it can take 10 to 15 minutes on average to skate around the rink just once (this might be as long as you can bear to stay outside in the Moscow winter!).
Boat cruises down the Moscow River offer a special view of Moscow, winter time or otherwise. Previously only available during the warm seasons, you can take an icebreaker boat cruise that can break up the ice that crusts over the river during the winter. You can enjoy dinner or lunch during this 2-hour cruise while viewing the snow-capped sights of Moscow from within the glass-enclosed deck.
CC0 Creative Commons/Pixabay
Ice sculptors show off their skills in the Moscow winter. One popular example is scaled-down models of various parts of Russian cities  made of ice. Ice sculpting competitions are organized on an annual basis at various venues, including Sokolniki Park and Park Pobedy, and feature various themes. If you are traveling with the kids, check out the ​snow art school in Perovsky Park where they teach children how to build sculptures from snow and ice using special techniques.
The snow is so plentiful in Moscow during winter that it is possible to create legions of snowmen within a small area. Look for snowman parades on Arbat Street and elsewhere in Moscow. Keep on the lookout for snowman-building competitions, which are likely after a heavy snowfall. In winter, Moscow can become surprisingly competitive!
Speaking of Moscow winter competitions, an annual one called "Art on Snow" takes place in Moscow's Sokolniki Park. Dozens of families participate in creating temporary masterpieces on the smooth white canvas nature provides during winter.
Russians love to celebrate the winter weather and the holidays. Moscow's Russian Winter Festival coincides with other winter festivals across Russia, but due to its popularity and the city's resources, the Moscow version of the Russian Winter Festival is a huge event, running from mid-December to mid-January.
Other popular winter festivals include Moscow's December Nights, New Year's Eve festivities in Red Square, and finally Maslenitsa, which heralds the end of winter and coincides with the start of the Lenten season. Even if you've never thought to visit the city during winter, Moscow is beckoning.
CC0 Creative Commons/Pixabay
Russians mark the holidays with New Year's trees rather than Christmas trees, but these trees usually stay up until the Russian Christmas is celebrated on January 7. Inevitably, trees will be erected at significant spots in the city, like Red Square and the Kremlin's Cathedral Square. These trees offer travelers Moscow winter photo opportunities by day and by night ​when they glow with their trimmings of lights.​
Svetlov Artem/Wikimedia Commons
In addition to ice skating, more than 40 parks throughout Moscow offer dozens of ski tracks and walking paths. Ski tracks are largely illuminated and have heated locker rooms and rental points. Also, visitors to a majority of those parks can enjoy tubing and ice slides. Through Moscow, winter gear including skates, skis, sleds, tubes, and snowboards, are available on-site.
  Ice Skating in Moscow  
 Icebreaker Cruise on the Moscow River 
  Ice Sculpture in Moscow  
  Snowman Parades  
  Painting on Snow Competition  
  Moscow Winter Festivals  
  New Year's Trees  
  Winter Sporting Fun  
The capital of Russia, Moscow is as famous for cold as the rest of the country, whether because of historical reasons (Napoleon's army didn't fare well here, if you'll recall) or contemporary news reports. Global warming notwithstanding, Moscow can be cold well into the spring and even the summer, as people who've spent June in Moscow can attest.
Of course, June is a lovely month to visit Moscow, even if you don't luck out with sunny skies and warm temperatures. Whether you come for special or annual events, marvel at annual Russia Day festivities or simply plan your visit to proceed the extremely busy tourism months of July and August, here's what you need to know about visiting Moscow in June.
As is the case in the rest of the northern hemisphere, June is technically the month where spring ends and summer begins in Moscow. However, while high temperatures in June average around 22 C or 72 F, some days can struggle to get out of the 50s and 60s, while nighttime temperatures can occasionally dip below freezing.
As a result of the weather in Moscow at this time (improving, but not reliably excellent), June in Moscow is a relatively quiet time for events. The only regular exception is Russia Day, which takes place on June 12 every year, although the Moscow International Film Festival has taken place in June at certain points during the past.
The average temperatures for June in Moscow are as follows:
As you can see, June weather in Moscow is relatively pleasant, at least in terms of average temperatures. However, there are some other factors you should keep in mind:
Because June (especially) early June in Moscow can be cool, it's best to dress in layers when you travel to Moscow. You can bring t-shirts, polos and other light weight tops, but it's a good idea to have a hoodie or another light jacket with you, and to be wearing long pants or a long skirt to avoid a fashion faux-pas if you have to layer up. Since rain can occur up to 40% of days in June in Moscow, always carry an umbrella in your bag, and wear shoes that are water-resistant.
June is not an extremely busy month for events in Moscow, in general, though certain annual or bi-annual events do take place at this time. In 2019, for example, Russian Gaming Week will take place from June 6-7, while Russian Elevator Week takes place between June 18-20. The Moscow International Film Festival will not take place in June in 2019; it instead took place in April.
Although some holidays may take place on different days throughout June, depending on the year, June 12 is always Russia Day, which sees many businesses closed, and lots of parades and pageantry in the city center, including in Red Square.
In general, neither June's weather nor typical event schedule requires vigilance for would-be travelers, though there are a few things you should keep in mind:
Flexible about when you can travel to Moscow, and not afraid of the cold? Check out TripSavvy's guide to visiting Moscow during the winter months.
  Must-Know Facts About June in Moscow  
  June Weather in Moscow  
  What to Pack for Moscow in June  
  June Holidays and Events in Moscow  
  June Travel Tips for Moscow  
Average temperature: 17 C / 63 F
Average high: 22 C / 72 F
Average low: 12 C / 54 F
You can expect 10 centimeters or 3.93 inches of rain to fall on Moscow in June
Moscow in June typically experiences 12 days of rain, though other days can be cloudy
You can enjoy around 17 hours of daylight in Moscow in June
Moscow's June winds are typical westerly, and blow at just over 8 mph
Moscow is not very humid in June, with only a 3% change of a day that is muggy
June marks the beginning of summer, which means that crowds can increase in size, particularly at the end of the month
As a result, if you plan to visit Moscow in June, you should book hotels early to avoid high prices
Russia Day festivities welcome foreigners, though you should be prepared for wild crowds
You say the word "Moscow" to Americans, and it conjures up the Kremlin, Red Square and images of intensely cold winters against the backdrop of colorful onion domes.
Moscow was Russia's capital before Peter the Great moved the capital to his new city, St. Petersburg, in 1712, and then again as the capital of the Soviet Union after the Russian Revolution -- the government was moved back to Moscow in 1918. 
Moscow never lost its intensity or spirit -- one that has inspired writers and poets, ensnared the nobility with its charms, and proved to be the center of Soviet mystique during the Cold War. Moscow represents both the Russia of yesterday and the Russia of today.
Moscow, as Russia's capital city, was home to more than 12 million residents as of 2015, according to the CIA World Factbook, and countless non-residents. While the population consists mainly of ethnic Russians, other groups are represented in relatively small numbers.
Moscow holds a top spot in the world's most expensive cities. The Russian capital is an international business center, and after the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991, international corporations have set up branches in Moscow. Industries like hospitality have risen to meet the need, ensuring that Moscow continues to grow.
Moscow is the seat of Russia's government, and the Kremlin, at turns an opulent and forbidding house of government, sits in the heart of the city. Just as the czars once ruled over Russia, so now does the Russian president. Visitors to Moscow today can see architecture that dates from 1533 to 1584, the reign of the first czar of Russia, Ivan the Terrible. One such building is the iconic St. Basil's Cathedral, which is on Red Square and near the Kremlin in central Moscow. Through exploring these historic buildings you can gain insight into how Russia's way of life has long differed from that of the West.
Russia's greatest writers were familiar with Moscow, and many lived in the capital city at some point during their lives. Some were born there, others died there, but they all left important traces of their lives for literary visitors to discover. Moscow is home to many Russian museums about its writers that seek to stop time for their greatest fans.
While St. Petersburg might arguably rival Moscow with its collection of art at the Hermitage, Moscow is home to the culturally significant Tretyakov Gallery. The Tretyakov Gallery is the world's most important museum of Russian art. Famous Russian masters -- Repin and Vrubel, among others -- have special places in Moscow's Tretyakov Gallery.
The Armory Museum holds a collection of jewels, crowns, thrones and carriages from royal Russia The Armory's State Diamond Fund preserves these important symbols of Russia as a czardom and empire.
Moscow is famous for its harsh winters that sometimes last until April. Summers are hot but not unbearable. Fall begins early, so the best times to travel to Moscow are from May until September. However, Maslenitsa takes place during February or March, so sometimes it's well worth it to brave the Moscow cold. If you're traveling there for Maslenitsa, check out these other Moscow winter activities.
Moscow's metro system is fast and efficient. While its unforgiving crowds and system of stops might take some getting used to, it's possible to travel all over the city inexpensively and easily using the metro. A bonus: Moscow's metro stations are attractions in themselves. Opulently decorated in fine materials by master craftsmen, the Moscow metro stations are a unique and impressive aspect to Russia's transit system.
Russia's capital city is expensive, and the closer to the center you stay, the more pricey your accommodations will be. For travelers on a budget, it's prudent to stay on the outside of the city and take the metro into the city center.
 
  City Statistics  
  History  
  Home to Russia's Greatest Writers  
  Center of Art and Art History  
  Weather  
  Getting Around  
  Staying in Moscow  
"Stalin's Seven Sisters" is the nickname given to a group of skyscrapers built in the Stalinist style of architecture, which is also known as a "wedding cake" style because of the skyscrapers' tiered construction. Russia's Seven Sisters reside in Moscow. Buildings in other countries formerly belonging to the Soviet Union also exemplify the style Stalin's Seven Sisters are famous for.
The main building of the Moscow State University, probably the most recognizable of the Seven Sisters, was completed in 1953 and construction was undertaken with the labor of prisoners of the Soviet Gulag, or labor camp system. This building can be found on Sparrow Hills.
Hotel Ukraina (pronounced oo-kray-EEN-ah), now the Radisson  Royal, is famous for its longtime standing as one of Europe's tallest hotels (it is no longer the tallest). This Stalin's Sister is located near Moscow's city center on Kutozovsky Prospect. The hotel's construction was completed in 1955, but it has since had a facelift.
Located on Smolenskaya-Sennaya Square in the Arbat district of Moscow, this member of Stalin's Seven Sisters houses the offices of Russia's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Construction for this building ended in 1953.
Hotel Leningradskaya, on Komsomolskaya Square, is now run by Hilton Hotels. The hotel, built in 1953, and meant to symbolize opulence, boasts modern conveniences after a thorough renovation and a location that allows for easy access to Moscow's sights.
The Kotelnicheskaya Embankment Building can be found looming over the Moskva River. Completed in 1952, this member of Stalin's Seven Sisters was built to house communal flats for Moscow's citizens, many of them historically notable.
This Stalinist structure from 1954 faces Moscow's Garden Ring and was built to house apartments for the Soviet elite.
The Red Gates Square Building, built by the architect Alexander Dushkin and completed in 1953, houses administrative offices and apartments. It is also located on the Garden Ring.
Latvia's Academy of Sciences, located in Riga, while not officially one of the "Seven Sisters," is built in the Stalinist skyscraper style and was completed during the same era in 1956.
Warsaw's Palace of Science and Culture was a gift to Poland from the Soviet Union and completed in 1955. Like Riga's Academy of Sciences, it is not officially one of the Sisters, but it exemplifies the characteristics found in other Stalinist skyscrapers. Warsaw's residents continue to debate whether it has a place on their city's skyline: on one hand, it represents the oppressiveness of Moscow's influence, and on the other, it is a piece of history that serves as an important monument.
The House of the Free Press, as Casa Presei Libere is known in English, was built in 1956. Once housing the headquarters of a Romanian Communist newspaper, the building continues to host the offices of newspapers.
Hotel Ukrayina, located in Kiev, was originally named Hotel Moscow. This example of Stalinist-style architecture is a paired-down version of the more monumental structures in Moscow, Riga, and Warsaw. Due to long delays with construction as well as the winding down for the trend for "wedding cake" architecture, the hotel lacks the tower and spire that are representative of the other buildings belonging stylistically to this group.
  Moscow State University - Main Building Exemplifies Stalinist Architecture  
  Moscow's Hotel Ukraina  
  Moscow's Ministry of Foreign Affairs Building  
  Moscow's Leningradskaya Hotel  
  Kotelnicheskaya Embankment Building  
  Kudrinskaya Square Building  
  Red Gates Square Building  
  Riga's Academy of Sciences Building  
  Warsaw Palace of Science and Culture  
  Casa Presei Libere in Bucharest  
  Hotel Ukrayina in Kiev  
Moscow is known for its extravagant nightlife and exclusive nightclubs. Sometimes, though, you just want to sit down and have a drink with some friends in a cozy pub instead of (or before) a wild night out on the town.
Luckily, Moscow’s pub scene has been expanding rapidly over the past several years, and you're sure to find your favorite atmosphere in the following list of Moscow’s top 10 bars and pubs, all of which are easily reachable by the Metro system or by taxi.
Like in most parts of the world, the pubs in Moscow are subject to sudden closures, so always be sure to check the bars' websites and social media channels for up-to-date information on hours of operation, special events, and food and drink pricing.
This is a cozy bar where everyone is welcome and the cocktail selection is unparalleled. The music is always at a manageable level, and you will not have to fight to hold a conversation over it.
In addition, live music shows are held here quite often on the weekends and feature some of the best local and international talent. This latest incarnation of the Red Square neighborhood staple boasts a "friendly elaborate next-door bar with a touch of Russia's ethereal chic."
Address: Tverskaya Str., 23/12 Moscow, RU 125009
Metro: Mayakovskaya or Pushkinskaya
Website: Noor Bar
Mollie's Pub is centrally located in Moscow and one of the busiest spots on Myasnickaya Street. Offering 55 types of whiskey and 15 kinds of beer, this local favorite is a go-to place for those seeking a more traditional Irish pub.
Great for checking out an international sporting event on one of the many TVs or for a quick bite before a night out in one of Moscow's best nightlife spots, Mollie's Pub is a great way to start out your night, but you might want to make a reservation as tables fill up quick!
Address: Myasnitskaya ul., 13, Moskva, RU 101000
Website: Mollie's Pub
This bar is attached to the Strelka Institute for Media, Design, and Architecture and the interior and clientele are suitably stylish and unique. Students, designers, and artists gather here to enjoy some quiet sipping of cocktails, an occasional trendy party, or just to play the piano inside the bar.
This is a truly unique place in Moscow and definitely well-worth a visit—you might even be lucky enough to bump elbows with one of the next great artists emerging in the Moscow art scene!
Address: Bersenevskaya Naberezhnaya, 14, Str. 5a Moscow, RU 119072
Metro: Kropotkinskaya
Website: Bar Strelka
Pod Mukhoi offers a small, cozy atmosphere and unbeatable prices for a wide variety of pub food and specialty beverages. This is truly a place to relax, enjoy some well-made drinks and spend a long lingering evening, perfect for a quiet date night.
Since 2005, this trendy spot has served the neighborhood in Moscow with some of the best cocktails and small dishes pubs in the city offer. Be sure to check out the assemble-it-yourself noodles!
Address: Strastnoy Bulvar 6, Structure 2, Moscow, RU 125009 
Metro: Tverskaya, Pushkinskaya
Website: Pod Muhoy
This is a true English pub with a wide selection of beer, televised football games, and traditional British food.
Warm up here on a cold Moscow evening in a relaxed and cozy place, perfect for spending time with friends or meeting some interesting new people who share an affinity for comforts of England.
Address: Nikitsky Bulvar 12, Moscow, RU 125009
Metro: Arbatskaya
Website: John Donne Pub
As the name would suggest, this distinctly French bar in central Moscow is the place to go for very affordable drinks, delicious food, and always interesting conversation. The bar staff is friendly and the music is good, too, so it's sure to please lovers of French romance and ambiance.
Address: Tsvetnoy Bulvar 24/1, Moscow, RU 127051
Metro: Chekhovskaya
Website: Jean-Jacques Cafe and Wine Bar
This iconic British and European pub is perfect for catching a game on TV, but you should visit the website and book a reservation ahead of time on game nights as the pub fills up rather quickly.
Bobby Dazzler is especially a hit among beer enthusiasts from England and has been featured in the popular pub magazine Cheers multiple times in the last few years for its emphasis on excellent craft beers.
Address: Kostyanskiy Pereulok, 7/13, Moscow, RU 107045
Metro: Turgenevskaja, Chistye Prudy, Sretenskiy Bulvar
Website: Bobby Dazzler
A very trendy bar and restaurant that manages to be both extravagant and affordable at the same time, Dream Bar is the place to go with a cocktail dress on and share an evening with the girls, "Sex and the City style" or put on your best shoes and enjoy the girls’ company!
The menu and the interior are as innovative as its creator, Dmitry Sokolov, and it boasts the "best cocktail menu in Moscow." With modern, trendy music bumping and a great atmosphere for conversation, you'll have a positively dreamy time at this venue, and it's open all night!
Address: Myasnitskaya Ulitsa 17/1, Moscow, RU 101000
Metro: Turgenevskaya, Chistye Prudy
Website: Dream Bar
This bar is on top of a hotel and offers a stunning panoramic view of Moscow. This is a glamorous spot where you will rub shoulders with the top businessmen and managers.
It’s also a great place to go before a night out on the town, but it’s definitely not cheap! However, City Space Bar and Lounge was one of the top 10 bars in the world in 2008, according to “Bartender’s Guide."
Address: Kozmodamianskaya Naberezhnaya 52, Moscow, RU
Special Note: Venue is on the 34th floor of Swissotel Krasnye Holmy.
Metro: Paveletskaya
Website: City Space Bar and Lounge
  Noor | Electro Bar  
 Mollie's Pub 
  Strelka Bar  
  Pod Mukhoi | Pod Muhoy  
  John Donne Pub  
  Jean-Jacques Cafe and Wine Bar  
  Bobby Dazzler  
  Dream Bar  
  City Space Bar and Lounge  
In most cases, you'll be entering Red Square from the north, passing landmarks such as the Bolshoi Theatre and Duma parliament building as you make your way southward. Although you don't necessarily have to pass through the Voskresensky (or Resurrection in English) Gates in order to gain access to the square these days, they definitely provide a sense of arrival, to say nothing of the way their left arch frame's St. Basil's Cathedral if you look from just the right angle.
An interesting fact is that while a gate of some kind has stood here since the mid-16th century, the one you currently see wasn't built until 1994, having been destroyed in 1931 so that tanks could enter and exit Red Square during military parades.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson 
Few sights are as iconic not only of Moscow and Red Square but indeed of Russia than St. Basil's Cathedral, whose colorful, onion-shaped domes are a symbol of the country around the world. Officially known as the Cathedral of Vasily the Blessed, this church has stood since 1561, which is quite miraculous when you consider all the turbulent history that has transpired since then.
Among other things, religion was severely prohibited during the Soviet period, which led some to believe that this emblem of the Russian Orthodox church might not withstand the tenure of the USSR. 
An interesting fact is that St. Basil's is the so-called "Kilometer Zero" of Russia; all of Moscow's main roads (which can take you anywhere in Russia) begin at the exits to Red Square. In this way, St. Basil's iconic status also has an extremely tangible element.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
When you think of The Kremlin, it's unlikely that positive images enter your mind. The fact that simply saying the word "Kremlin" is too vague a descriptor (most Russian cities have their own Kremlin complexes; you should say "Moscow Kremlin") notwithstanding, this misunderstood place is incredibly beautiful, even if you don't like the policy that comes out of it.
In spite of its name, which refers to the role the building that rises above the square played during Imperial Russia, Senate Square is actually home to Russia's presidential administration, currently helmed by Vladimir Putin. In order to see where Russia's legislature operates from, walk just outside Red Square to the Duma parliament building.
Dating back to the year 1479, the gold-domed Dormition Cathedral pays homage to an Orthodox religious feast that commemorates the death of the Virgin Mary. As is the case with St. Basil's, it is curious that such a conspicuously religious structure was able to survive through the Soviet period.
Though it takes its name from the fact that it housed Russia's royal arsenal when it was built in the 16th century, the most notable resident of the Kremlin's Armoury Chamber today is the Russian Diamond Fund.
The interior of the Moscow Kremlin is more beautiful and inviting than you'd expect, but the walls and towers that rise around it better live up to the intimidation with which the complex is associated. 
Named to commemorate the dense forest that once stood atop the mount where it's built, this tower is extremely picturesque. Built in the late 15th century, it's visible from most places in the square, and also as you walk along the Moskva River.
Also built in the year 1491, this tower currently suffered destruction at the hands of Napoleon's army in the 19th century. What you see now is the result of an 1816 re-design and renovation, though artillery fire during the Russian Revolution also caused superficial damage to the tower, named to honor St. Nikolas of Mozhaysk, so it's difficult to know which elements of it are original.
Known in English as the "Savior's Tower," this iconic, star-topped tower is perhaps the best-known of all the Kremlin's towers. Built in 1491 like the other two towers on this list, it's certainly the most photographed. As a result of its proximity to St. Basil's, it often makes its way into tourists' pictures.
Just as it's strange to learn how many religious monuments survived through the Soviet period, it's a bit odd to think that Lenin's preserved body still sits in a mausoleum just beneath the walls of the Kremlin on Red Square, given the lack of consensus about the ultimate impact of his Revolution, even in Russia.
It's not guaranteed that you'll be able to see the body (which, believe it or not, seems to be improving with age) when you go, and if you do you will likely have to wait in line, but even strolling past the outside of the Lenin Mausoleum, flanked by stone-faced guards that almost look like statues, illuminates the gravity of his body still being here.
You might cringe, at least initially, when you realize that one of the most iconic stops on a tour of Red Square is a department store—until you see said department store, that is. Built in 1893 and known during Soviet times as the State Department Store, GUM (Glávnyj Universáľnyj Magazín​ or Main Universal Store in English) hearkens back to the grandeur of the late 19th century, both seen from the outside (especially, when lit up at night) and the interior, which might have you feeling like you're further west in Europe.
A trip inside GUM is a particularly good idea during winter, when frigid temperatures outside will have you savoring the heat, the quality of souvenirs, confections and other goods sold inside notwithstanding. Also, make sure not to confuse GUM with CDM, which sits near the Bolshoi Theatre, even though both are stunning and iconic in their own right.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
The Russian State Historical Museum is located near Voskresensky Gates, though you should wait until after you've seen the first few attractions of Red Square and the Kremlin to head back there and go inside. To be sure, as you pass by its facade (whose late-19th century grandeur somewhat obscures that fact that it's currently a museum accessible to the public) you might not even think to try and gain entry.
Once inside the museum, you can plan to spend at least a couple of hours, given that artifacts here date back to the very beginning of the Russian state in the ninth century. As is the case with GUM, this will be a particularly alluring prospect if you visit in winter, when Moscow is arguably at its most beautiful, but certainly at its least tolerable. 
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
It's somewhat easy to disregard this monument, which pays homage to the two Russian princes who ended the so-called "Time of Troubles" in the mid-16th century, during which Polish-Lithuanian forces occupied Russia, among other awful things including a famine. That's because the statue currently sits just at the base of St. Basil's Cathedral, which makes it very difficult to photograph or even see without being overwhelmed by that much more famous edifice.
Though the statue originally sat at the very center of Red Square, it came to be an obstacle to the movement of tanks during the Soviet period, much like the Voskresensky Gates. As a result, authorities moved it during that time, and it's stayed where you currently find it ever since.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
Taken by itself, the smokey-pink Kazan Cathedral is an architectural marvel; originally built in the 17th century, the church you find here today, located just north of the GUM department store, dates back only to 1993.
Unfortunately, since it sits not only in the shadow of GUM, but also in the shadow St. Basil's and the Towers of the Kremlin, it's easy to miss entirely if you aren't looking. As a result, you might wait until you've seen just about everything else in Red Square before coming here to take photos, and to appreciate the understated beauty of this oft-overlooked cathedral.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
As you head south from St. Basil's Cathedral to exit Red Square, make sure to walk onto Bolshoy Moskvoretskiy Bridge, which crosses the Moskva River. If you look due north, you can get an excellent shot of the church framed, on the left, by the towers of the Kremlin. Directing your gaze a bit to the west allows you to see the skyscrapers of Moscow City as they rise above the Kremlin's walls.
Walking westward along the riverbank is also a worthwhile excursion, for the views it provides of Red Square and the Kremlin, as well as the fact that doing so takes you to other iconic Moscow attractions, including Gorky Park and the Pushkin Museum. The views you enjoy from the river and the bridge are particularly stunning at night, though you should make sure you bring a tripod if you want to get a clear picture, given how strong winds over and near the river can be.
  St. Basil's Cathedral  
  The Kremlin  
  Senate Square  
  Dormition Cathedral  
  Armoury Chamber  
  Notable Kremlin Towers  
  Borovitskaya Tower  
  Nikolskaya Tower  
  Spasskaya Tower  
  Mausoleum of Lenin  
  GUM Shopping Center  
  State Historical Museum  
  Minin-Pozharsky Monument  
  Kazan Cathedral  
  Moskva River  
Visitors and Russians themselves flock to Moscow to enjoy the history, culture, and lifestyle of this vibrant city. Moscow, with a population of almost 12 million, is busy and fast-paced and has an efficient subway system to help you explore the city. But it also has historic sites, ancient streets, and museums that will slow your pace a bit.
Visitors to Moscow can find the city tantalizingly overwhelming. The city's so large it can be difficult to determine what the best things to do in Moscow really are, but these key attractions will get you started.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
The Moscow Kremlin is a must-see for visitors to Moscow and one of the best things to do in the Russian capital city. Once inside, visit Cathedral Square; the historic cathedrals are where the tsars and their families worshipped.
Also on display are the Tsar Bell and Tsar Cannon, two monuments to the grandeur of Russia's past. The Amoury Chamber Museum, which holds impressive Imperial relics such as gilded gold carriages and silver-threaded royal garments, is worth a visit as well.
Just outside the Kremlin is the famous Red Square. There you can watch the changing of the guard at the Eternal Flame and visit Lenin's Tomb (be prepared to stand in line for more than an hour).
Explore the iconic St. Basil's Cathedral if it's open—it is as beautiful on the inside as it is the outside. Consider visiting Red Square in the evening and experience it without the tourists. It's magical.
 Patrick Donovan/Getty Images
The State Tretyakov Gallery has the best collection of Russian art in the country. The likenesses of Catherine the Great and Pushkin will confront you in its galleries. Larger-than-life social commentaries from the 19th century will move you with their visual messages.
Repin, Vrubel, Kandinsky, Chagall, and many more Russian artists are represented here—open any book on Russian art and most of the significant pieces described there will be hanging in the Tretyakov. 
 efesenko/Getty Images
This is the main souvenir market of Moscow, and here is where you can find all things Russian at all prices. Folk crafts, jewelry, antiques, chess sets, and anything else "Russian" will tempt you. 
The market is on three levels with folk art and typical souvenirs on the first floor, odds and ends on the second floor, and some true antique and art dealers on the third.  
Getting there is easy—just look on any metro map, find the Partizanskaya stop, and follow the signs to Izmaylovo Market by Izmailovsky park behind the Izmailovo Hotel.
 Alice Wanwarameth/Getty Images
Old Arbat Street, a favorite with tourists, is Moscow's oldest and most famous thoroughfare. It's the kind of place where you'll be able to find some elegant historic homes co-existing with stalls selling some not-so-unusual souvenirs.  
You can visit the Pushkin House-Museum, once the home of the Father of Russian Literature, houses a vast collection of his portraits and manuscrips, plus his first-floor apartment with the original furniture.
You'll have more than one artist, musician, or juggler vying for your attention, depending upon the season and the time of day. Old Arbat Street is completely pedestrian, which means it's also great for people watching.
 Jonathan Smith/Getty Images
Moscow's Victory Park (Park Pobedy) memorializes the Great Patriotic War, otherwise known as World War II. This war took a huge toll on Russia, and elderly Russians are revered for having survived this difficult time. You'll find WWII memorials all over Russia, but Victory Park is Moscow's main home for these monuments, sculptures, fountains, and obelisks.
 Daniele SCHNEIDER/Getty Images
Get a panoramic view of Moscow from Sparrow Hills, once named Lenin Hills. This vantage point allows you to get a good look at the expanse of the city and is perfect for photographs, a romantic moment, or jotting down thoughts in your travel journal.
The Moscow State University and the Trinity Church are on the hills.
Pavliha/Getty Images 
GUM, just off of Red Square, is Moscow's most famous shopping center. As the facade that faces into Red Square has maintained its 19th-century appearance, it's easy to pass it by if you don't know it's there.
The variety of shops contained within are a testament to how far Russia has come since Soviet days. You'll find all types of name-brand items and designers represented in GUM. If you just want to window shop, buy an ice cream cone from one of the vendors and browse at your leisure.
 wastesoul/Getty Images
While the Tretyakov Gallery houses Russia's greatest artworks, the Pushkin Fine Arts Museum holds a vast collection of foreign-born artists' masterpieces. If you like Impressionism, Post-Impressionism, and Renaissance art, you'll enjoy the Pushkin Fine Arts Museum.
 Max Ryazanov/Getty Images
Get an overview of Moscow with a boat tour through the city. During summer, boat tours are pleasant and relaxing, and this alternative view of the city is charming.
The towers of the Kremlin, as well as other significant architectural monuments, peek over the treetops. Stand on the open-air deck and snap pictures of the buildings on the river's banks as you float by.
 The Kremlin 
 Red Square 
 State Tretyakov Gallery 
 Izmaylovo Market 
 Old Arbat Street 
 Victory Park 
 Sparrow Hills 
 GUM (State Department Store) 
 Pushkin Fine Arts Museum 
 Boat Tour of Moscow 
Moscow was, of course, the heart and soul of the Soviet Union, where Lenin, Stalin, and many other important political figures made decisions that changed the world, keeping the country under Communist rule for more than 70 years. Moscow housed the headquarters of the Soviet secret service, the KGB, and the developing nuclear and aerospace breakthroughs of the Soviet Union during the Cold War. If you’re a history buff – or just curious about the Moscow sights & attractions that are relics of the Soviet Union – here is a USSR tour of Moscow:
Red Square has always been the heart of Moscow (and perhaps even Russia itself). During the Soviet Era, Red Square was the seat of the Soviet government, and the square was used for military vehicle traffic and demonstrations; the Kazan Cathedral and Iverskaya Chapel were even destroyed to make more room on the square. These were rebuilt after the fall of the USSR. After Lenin’s death, his body was embalmed and placed in a mausoleum right on Red Square itself (it’s still there and can be visited).
This square houses a large building which served as the KGB headquarters and its prison during the Soviet era. The chief’s office was on the third floor while the prison was on the first. The building hasn’t changed much; it now houses the Federal Security Service (FSB) and the Lubyanka prison. There is also a KGB museum which is open to the public – enter if you dare…
This street in Moscow used to be the area where a large part of Russia’s space program developed. Now it houses several monuments dedicated to pioneers in Russia’s aeronautic industry, with the Museum of Cosmonautics and the Monument to the Conquerors of Space at one end of it (and VDNKh metro station on the other end). The Monument to the Conquerors of Space was built after a design competition to select the sculptor and architect to best construct it; it was finished in 1964. The Museum of Cosmonautics was not opened until 1981.
This “Park of Fallen Monuments” or “Park of Fallen Heroes” is located near the Park Kultury amusement park and the Krymsky Val building. The park is a haunting collection of over 700 sculptures that were made during the Soviet era. When the Soviet Union collapsed, many Soviet-themed statues were literally removed from the streets, dragged here and left lying on the ground (hence the name). In 1995 a World War II section was added, with sculptures installed which had never been on display before. By far the most haunting piece is Evgeny Chubarov’s monument to the fallen victims of Soviet-era concentration camps, which is a collection of 300 sculptures displayed as faces in a single cage. While this park is not in many Moscow guidebooks, it is definitely a must-visit, since it appears to have retained much of the Soviet atmosphere in a rapidly developing Moscow.
Moscow’s oldest and largest film studio, Mosfilm, provided the location and sets of all of Russia’s most famous films made during the Soviet era. Today you can take a tour of the studio (although you have to subscribe for it in advance) and take a look at original props, costumes, and sets from Soviet-era films. They even have a collection of old cars on display. This was a hugely important place in the USSR, since Soviet films were one of the only mediums where a modicum of freedom of expression survived during the Communist rule.
  Red Square  
  Lubyanka Square  
  Cosmonauts Alley  
  Muzeon Sculpture Park  
 Mosfilm 
