Reims is the capital of Champagne and is famous for its magnificent cathedral where by tradition, French kings were crowned. Also visit the splendid Bishop's Palace, the Palais du Tau (the church always looked after its own) and the house, now a museum, where Germany surrendered unconditionally to General Eisenhower. 
Reims is also the place to try Champagne. Most of the top houses have guided visits of their cellars, many of which are dug into the rock. 
Read guest reviews, check prices and book a hotel in Reims with TripAdvisor.
Reims makes a great centre for exploring the region. Don't miss medieval Troyes with its wonderful old cobbled streets and fascinating museums. It's also one of the places to go for discount shopping, with the largest malls in France just outside the centre of town. 
Also worth checking out are the Hidden Treasures of Champagne which includes both Colombey-les-Deux-Eglises, home of Charles de Gaulle, and a great de Gaulle Museum, and  Voltaire's chateau where he lived for years with his mistress.
Reims Tourist Office:2 rue Guillaume-de-MachaultTel.: 00 33 (0)8 92 70 13 51Reims Tourist website
TGV trains to Reims leave from  Gare de l’est  in Paris (Place du 11 Novembre, Paris 10th arrondissement) all through the day. The journey takes from 45 minutes.
There are two stations serving Reims. The main TGV Station is Champagne-Ardennes TGV Station, which is outside the city, 5 miles (8 kms) south of Reims. There is a direct TGV link from Paris Charles de Gaulle airport to the Champagne-Ardenne TGV station taking around 30 minutes.The main Reims-Paris TGV also connects with Chalons-en-Champagne, Vitry-le-Francois, Charleville-Mezieres, Rethel and Sedan.
The new tramway in Reims has a shuttle service from the TGV station into the town center.
Central Reims Station is on place de la Gare, about a ten-minute walk from the city center.Reims also connects with Epernay in Champagne and Laon in Picardy.
Paris to Reims by car
The distance from Paris to Reims is around 143 kms (88 miles), and the journey takes around 90 minutes depending on your speed. There are tolls on the Autoroutes.
For information on hiring a car under the lease-back scheme, which is the most economical way of hiring a car if you’re in France for more than 17 days, try  Renault Eurodrive Buy Back Lease.
Getting from London to Paris
  Paris to Reims by Train  
  Transport links to Gare de l'Est in Paris  
  Connections to Reims by TGV  
  Getting into Reims from the Champagne-Ardennes TGV Station  
  Connections via the TER Express service to Reims Central Station  
  Booking Train Travel in France  
  Car Hire in France  
MetroLigne 4: Porte de Clignancourt to Porte d’OrleansLigne 5: Bobigny-Pablo Picasso to Port d’ItalieLigne 7: La Coureuve 8 Mai 1945 to Ville Juif to Louis Aragon
For buses, see the Paris Bus map
From the USA check prices and buy online with Rail Europe
From the UK check prices and buy online with voyages-sncf (formerly Rail Europe UK)
By train (Eurostar)Eurostar between London, Paris and Lille
