Rome is a popular travel destination in Italy full of attractions. Today's Rome is a vibrant and lively city with reminders of its past everywhere. You'll encounter ancient Roman sites, medieval and Renaissance buildings and fountains, great museums, and beautiful squares. The city is a living museum of history from Roman times to present. It also boasts many fine restaurants, cafes, and good nightlife too.
Prior to the first full day, you will check into your hotel. Take some time to wander around the neighborhood near your hotel. Although Rome is a huge city, its historic center is small, making it easy to walk. If you want to see more of the city, take public bus number 110 (from the train station or ask your hotel for the closest stop). Riding on this bus is an inexpensive way to get a good overview of Rome.
For a more in-depth and personalized introduction to the city, book a walking tour. You'll see top sights such as the Colosseum, Roman Forum, Arch of Constantine, Palatine Hill, Spanish Steps, Trinita dei Monti church, Trevi Fountain and more.
Also check out recommendations for our favorite hotels in Rome: Overall, Budget, and Boutique.
Tip: If you like using physical maps, buy the Rome Transportation Map at a newsstand or tourist shop. It's a good map and if you want to take a bus or the metro, it will be very useful. You might also want to buy a Rome Pass or Discount Card to use on transportation and admissions.
On your first full day in Rome, visit Ancient Rome's best monuments and ruins.
The Roman Colosseum, Ancient Rome's huge amphitheater, was built in between 70 and 82 AD as a venue for gladiatorial and wild animal fights. Today it's one of the best and most popular monuments of Ancient Rome. Check out ways to avoid the long ticket line and Rome Passes and Cards for discounts on admissions.
Nearby you can visit the excavations and museum on the Palatine Hill, home to Roman emperors and aristocrats, also included with the Colosseum ticket.
Tip: On Sunday, the Via dei Fori Imperiali leading to the Colosseum is closed to traffic, making a nice place to walk.
The Roman Forum, a huge complex of ruined temples, basilicas, and arches, was the ceremonial, legal, social, and business center of ancient Rome. Give yourself at least two hours to wander around. 
Now you'll try what many consider the best gelato in Rome at San Crispino on Via Panetteria near the Trevi Fountain. Then see the magnificent Trevi fountain, completed in 1762. Toss a coin in the fountain to ensure your return to Rome.
The Pantheon, the best-preserved building of ancient Rome, has a spectacular dome and free admission, closes at 7 pm. For dinner try Armando al Pantheon, in a street to the right of the Pantheon as you're facing it. (Salita de' Crescenzi, 31, closed Saturday evening and Sunday and part of August). After dinner, splurge on a drink outside in the Pantheon's lively Piazza di Rotonda.
Tip: Bars and cafes charge more to sit outside but it's worth it if you stay awhile and enjoy the ambiance.
Stella Levantesi / TripSavvy 
Today you visit a few of Rome's neighborhoods and museums and sample the traditional Roman cuisine.
Campo dei Fiori is alive in the mornings with a market and flower vendors so it makes an interesting start to your day. From there wander along the Tiber River to Ponte Sisto, cross the Tiber to the Trastevere neighborhood and visit the church of Santa Maria in Trastevere, Rome's first Christian church. Cross back to the other side and continue to the Jewish Ghetto. There are several places to sample Rome's interesting Jewish cuisine in the Ghetto.
Tip: If you're up early and want good photos of Piazza Navona, start the itinerary there, before the tourists arrive. Then continue to Campo dei Fiori.
From the busy Piazza Venezia, a transport hub and home to the Vittorio Emanuele Monument, go up to the Capitoline Hill, where you will have a fabulous view of the Roman Forum. The piazza was designed by Michelangelo and the museums are the oldest in the world. Palazzo Nuovo has Greek and Roman sculptures and Palazzo dei Conservatori has art galleries, sculptures, and frescoes. 
Tonight, go to the Testaccio District by taxi, bus 75 or the metro. You'll want to make a reservation for dinner at Checchino dal 1887, a very nice restaurant serving old Roman cuisine. The Testaccio District has several good nightclubs if you want to go out after dinner.
Tip: Be alert for pickpockets on the Metro and in crowds.
Today we visit the Ancient Appian Way, catacombs, and Piazza Navona with optional shopping. Day 3 Alternative: A visit to Vatican City (technically not in Rome as it is a separate country) to see Saint Peter's Square and Basilica and the Vatican Museums could be taken instead of going to Via Appia Antica. Be sure to book your Vatican Museum tickets or tour in advance.
The Via Appia Antica, the major road of the ancient Roman Empire, is now a regional park, Parco Regionale Dell'Appia Antica. Take bus 118 or 218 to visit the catacombs of San Callisto, the largest and most impressive of the catacombs. Then walk or rent a bike and ride along the ancient road, lined with tombs, monuments, and churches. A beautiful place for lunch is the Cecilia Metella Restaurant, especially when it is nice and you can sit on the patio.
Tip: You can buy bus tickets at newsstands or tabacchi. Validate the ticket in the little machine when you board the bus. If you say catacombs, someone will tell you when to get off.
If you have time in the afternoon, go to Piazza del Popolo and walk along Via del Corso, the main shopping street. Turn onto Via Condotti and follow it to the Spanish Steps. Window-shopping and people-watching is good in this area and won't hurt your budget.
It's fun to try a restaurant you've discovered on your own and after three days of walking around Rome, you've probably found something you'd like to try.
In the evening, Piazza Navona is a great place to continue your people-watching as well as see the three lavish Baroque fountains. The much-touted ice-cream dessert, tartufo, is said to have originated here—you can try it outside at the Tre Scalini for a splurge or go inside and get a tartufo to go for less.
If you have more than three days in Rome, there are plenty of things to keep you occupied. Here are a few suggestions for what to see and where to go in Rome:
Vatican City, a tiny independent state, is home to the Pope and the Vatican, Saint Peter's Basilica and the Sistine Chapel, and the extensive Vatican Museums. Vatican City is easy to visit from Rome, plan to spend at least a half day there.
If you've seen the major sites and want to do something different, try a guided tour that includes touring Rome in a Vintage Fiat 500 or on a Vespa, training to be a gladiator, or visiting the Sistine Chapel after-hours.
At the foot of the Aventine hill are the monumental ruins of the Baths of Caracalla, used from the Second to Sixth century AD. Taking a bath was a social event for the people of ancient Rome and the huge complex could hold up to 1600 bathers! Besides baths, they held an array of facilities such as a gym, art galleries, gardens, and shops selling food and drinks.
Mussolini's former home is now open to the public. Inside the mansion, which dates from the 19th century, is a museum and the grounds have been made into a public park. 
Visit Rome's Cathedral San Giovanni Laterno, Saint Peter in Chains with its Michelangelo statue of Moses, Saint Paul Outside the Walls with magnificent mosaics, or Santa Maria in Cosmedin with its Byzantine mosaics and the Boca della Verita. Check out all of the top churches during your visit. 
The ruins of the ancient Rome port of Ostia Antica are well worth a visit. Ostia Antica is a huge complex and you can easily spend several hours wandering around the old streets, shops, and houses. You should plan at least a half day for this trip. To get there, take the Metro Line B to Magliana or Piramide and take the Ostia Lido train from there.
There are several beaches that can be visited on a day trip. If you're in Rome in the summer and you want to escape the heat of the city, visit one of these Rome Beaches.
On a day trip from Rome, you can visit Tivoli and the Villa d'Este, Orvieto, Frascati, Florence, or Etruscan tombs. Or if you prefer to have someone else make the arrangements, consider a Guided Day Trip from Rome.
Rome, Italy is one of the great cities of the world. With its history spanning thousands of years, its monumental architecture, fabulous piazzas, colorful markets and character-filled streets, it's truly dazzling at every turn. But if you're embarking on a trip to Rome, you need a strategy. Otherwise, you risk getting overwhelmed by the sheer volume of things to see in the Eternal City.
We've listed here a range of Rome's top tourist attractions, from its most famous Roman ruins to its most majestic churches, high-caliber art museums, charming piazzas and buzzing food markets. You will probably need several visits to Rome to see everything on this list—plus all the places we didn't have space for—but you have to start somewhere!  
Dedicated by Emperor Vespasian in AD 80, the Colosseum (so-named for a colossal statue of Emperor Nero that once stood on the site) once held up to 50,000 people and was the scene of countless deadly gladiatorial and wild animal fights. The ancient amphitheater is now the symbol of Rome, and a requisite stop on most tourist itineraries. Buy your tickets in advance to avoid waiting in a long, slow-moving line.
Adjacent to the Colosseum, the Roman Forum is a huge complex of ruined temples, basilicas, and arches. It was the ceremonial, legal, social, and business center of ancient Rome, and wandering its iconic ruins is an essential part of any Rome visit. Your ticket to the Colosseum is good for 2 days and included admission to the Roman Forum and the Palatine Hill (see below).
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson 
Many visitors to the Colosseum and Forum don't make the climb up to the Palatine Hill, and they're missing out. This was the high-rent district of ancient Rome, where emperors, senators, and other wealthy nobles built their homes. Though it's difficult to make sense of the many layers of ruins, it's rarely very crowded up here, and there is plenty of shade among the ruins.
It's one of the most important churches in all Christendom and the second largest church in the world. And regardless of your faith, St. Peter's Basilica is majestic and awe-inspiring, from its grand exterior to the soaring ceiling and ornate decoration of its interiors. You can limit your visit to the interior of the basilica, or see the underground tombs of the popes or climb the dome (or take the elevator part-way) for an unforgettable view of Rome.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
The sheer vastness of the art and antiquities collection of the Popes, coupled with the sheer volume of people who come every day to see it means you'll need to devote at least half a day just to hit the highlights. From ancient Roman and Egyptian sculptures and artifacts to works by some of the greatest painters in Western art, the collections are mind-boggling. The Raphael Rooms in the Papal apartments are a must-see as is, of course, the Sistine Chapel, with its ceiling and wall frescoes by Michelangelo depicting stories from the Old Testament. 
Stella Levantesi / TripSavvy
Even when it's overrun with tourists and souvenir vendors, which is most of the time, Piazza Navona is one of the most stunningly beautiful piazzas, or squares (though this one is an oval shape) in Rome, and one of its largest. The entire piazza is a pedestrian area, and it's lined with touristy restaurants and shops, plus the 17th-century church of Sant’Agnese in Agone. In the center of the piazza is Bernini's famous Fountain of the Four Rivers. 
Note that while Piazza Navona is beautiful for a daytime or evening stroll, we don't recommend dining here—instead find someplace more authentic off the piazza.
 Stella Levantesi / TripSavvy
There's nothing quite like exiting the narrow medieval streets of Rome's centro storico and stumbling upon the Pantheon, one of the world's best-preserved ancient buildings. The round building was the "temple to all gods" for the ancient Romans. It's been a church since the 7th century AD, which is one reason why it has managed to stay standing all these years. The only source of natural light in the cylinder-shaped, domed building is the 7.8-meter oculus, or round skylight at the top. The Piazza della Rotunda, the piazza on which the Pantheon sits, is one of the prettiest in Rome.
They're not particularly old or even that important historically, but the elegant Spanish Steps remain a draw for visitors to Rome, who photograph and climb the 138 steps, take a drink of water from the 18th-century Fontana della Barcaccia, and enjoy a gelato while window shopping—or dropping some serious cash—in the designer shops lining the streets around the steps. In the springtime, the steps are decked out with colorful azaleas, and make for an even better photo op.
Rome's most famous fountain was completed in 1762 and is a grand example of high baroque public sculpture. The gleaming white marble fountain depicts sea god Neptune surrounded by mermen, seahorses, and cascading pools. It's photo-op central, and in an effort to control the dense crowds gathered in front of the fountain,​ guards now keep people moving along. You'll still have time to toss a coin over your should (said to guarantee a return trip to Rome) and take a picture, but don't expect to sit and eat a gelato in front of the rushing waters.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson 
Set on top of the Capitoline Hill, one of the famous 7 hills of Rome, the Capitoline Museums house archaeological treasures from antiquity, as well as paintings from the Renaissance and Baroque eras.
Established by Pope Clement XII in 1741, the Capitoline Museums were the first in the world opened to the public. Some of its most famous pieces include fragments and a bust from a colossal statue of Constantine, a gigantic equestrian statue of Marcus Aurelius and an ancient sculpture of twins Romulus and Remus suckling the she-wolf. 
Rome's top museum for art lovers requires advance reservations, as attendance is limited and via timed entry. So plan ahead to visit this world-class collection of art and antiquities, including masterful sculptures from Bernini, and paintings from Raphael, Titian, Caravaggio, Rubens, and other giants of the Renaissance and Baroque.
The Galleria Borghese is within the grounds of the Villa Borghese, a vast public park that was once the private playgrounds of the popes. The park has a lake with boat rentals, plus playgrounds, picnic areas and in the summertime, kids' amusement rides and pony rides.
It's certainly one of Rome's most unusual sights: An above-ground "cemetery" where the crypts, walls, and even the chandeliers are decorated entirely with the bones—skulls and all—of more than 3,500 Capuchin friars. Eerie? Yes, but there's also something thoughtful and peaceful about the space. You'll pass through the crypts after visiting a comprehensive museum on the history of the Capuchin Order. The crypts are considered a holy place, so there's no talking or photography permitted, and visitors need to dress as they would to enter one of Rome's churches.
Stella Levantesi / TripSavvy
Campo de' Fiori is a piazza in Rome's centro storico and is the site of a colorful daily market (closed Sundays), with vendors selling fruit and vegetables, souvenirs and flowers. It's one of Rome's best-known outdoor markets and a real, if slightly touristy, slice of Roman life. The market is in full-swing by 8 AM, with most vendors closing up between noon and 1 PM. 
Campo de' Fiori is lined with bars and restaurants and in the evening, it is a nightlife hub.
Not an attraction but a neighborhood across the Tiber River from the ​centro storico, Trastevere is rightly described as a "real Roman neighborhood." It's narrow cobblestone streets are a delight to explore, and it's one of Rome's best areas for dining and nightlife. Two important churches, Santa Maria in Trastevere and Santa Cecilia in Trastevere, date to the early first millennium. The Piazza Santa Maria in Trastevere, lined with restaurants and bars, functions as the living room of the neighborhood.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
Once a grand race course clad in marble and stone, the Circus Maximus (Circo Massimo) was pilfered over the centuries and now bears little resemblance to its majestic past. Now a vast oval field where outdoor rock concerts occur far more frequently than chariot races, it is still worth seeing, if only to take in the size of the course, which could seat as many as 300,000 people. It's free to walk around, and you can sit here and have a picnic, though there's not much shade to be found. An archaeological area at the southeast end of the circus offers some insights into its past grandeur.
Completed in 216 AD, the massive complex of the Baths of Caracalla (Terme di Caracalla) could hold up to 1,600 bathers simultaneously, who soaked in hot, cold and tepid pools, and exercised in the gymnasium. Nobles, freemen and slaves alike were admitted to the baths and mingled together there. The Baths of Caracalla were richly decorated with mosaics, sculptures, and frescoes though today only fragments of the mosaics remain. Today the site impresses visitors with its sheer size, and the genius of the engineering and design that kept the giant bathing complex operating for hundreds of years. 
The Museo Nazionale, or National Museum of Rome, is actually four different museums run by the same entity: The Palazzo Massimo alle Terme, the Palazzo Altemps, Baths of Diocletian and the Crypta Balbi. The Palazzo Massimo contains a huge collection of Roman sculpture, coins, frescoes, and inscriptions, while the Palazzo Altemps is a more intimate collection of Roman works. The Baths of Diocletian were once Rome's largest—the Renaissance church built on top of them was designed by Michelangelo. Finally. the Crypta Balbi museum examines the development of a city block, from ancient Roman to medieval times. Your admission ticket gains you entrance to all four museums within a 3-day period.
Like the majority of churches in Rome, the Basilica di San Clemente was built on top of a pagan site of worship. It's one of the best places in the city for understanding the complex "layering" of Rome, and of how buildings developed on top of other buildings. While the church itself is ornately beautiful, the real attraction here is the underground, self-guided tour, which includes a 2nd-century Mithraeum, where worshipers would ritually slaughter bulls, an early Roman house. an underground river, and some of the oldest Christian frescoes in Rome.  
This highly-recommended site often falls off many tourists' radar, and that's too bad. Trajan's Markets were a multi-level, arcaded shopping complex—basically the world's first mall—with individual shops that sold everything from food to clothing to housewares. The Museum of the Imperial Forums presents the history and development of the markets and adjacent forums, and you can walk through the ancient market arcades, which are usually free of crowds. 
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
One of Italy's largest piazzas, this grand space centers around an Egyptian obelisk and is anchored by three churches. The most important one, Santa Maria del Popolo, is on the north end of the piazza and contains works by Bernini, Raphael, and Caravaggio. Above the piazza, the Pincio Hill offers sweeping views of the city and behind it, elegant Villa Borghese park spreads out for acres. Piazza del Popolo is a rare Roman piazza in that it is not lined with cafes and restaurants, though there are many in the vicinity.
Built as the mausoleum for Emperor Hadrian, this massive, round building near St. Peter's was subsequently used as a fortress, a prison and as private apartments for the Popes—its history is especially entwined with the infamous Borgia family. The tour begins on the 6th-floor terrace, which is famous from Puccini's opera, Tosca, and offers terrific views of Rome, then winds on a circular route down to the lower levels of the castle.
In an elegant palace built by the Borgias, the National Etruscan Museum at Villa Giulia houses an exceptional collection of artifacts, most of it from tombs, of the Etruscan peoples, the pre-Roman civilization that dominated central Italy prior to Roman conquest. Though much is known about the Etruscans, as many questions remain, and this museum will surely pique visitors' interest in this mysterious, advanced culture, which left a rich record of tomb carvings, weapons, jewelry, and household items.
Though it is now a charming neighborhood and a great place to sample traditional Roman-Jewish fare, the Roman Ghetto has a grim past. The walled neighborhood was established by Papal Bull in 1555, and all Rome's Jewish population were required to live in the swampy, disease-prone district near the Tiber. The ghetto was abolished in 1882 but in the waning years of WWII, Nazis deported most of the area's Jews to concentration camps—only a handful returned to Rome. 
Plan at least a half-day of exploring this fascinating area on the outskirts of Rome. The Via Appia Antica is the most famous of Rome's  roads and it is lined with the tombs of ancient Romans, from the massive Tomb of Cecilia Metella to those with humble portrait busts of their occupants. There are miles and miles of Christian catacombs along the Appian Way, but only three areas are open to the public, the catacombs of Saint Domitilla, Saint Callixtus, and Saint Sebastian. You probably only need to see one set of catacombs, so choose the one that works best for your interests and schedule.
Despite its name, this art museum in the magnificent Barberini palace has mostly works from the Renaissance onwards, including important paintings from Raphael, Titian and Caravaggio and other names you'd recognize from art history class. The palace itself, as well as the famous fountain out front, were designed by Bernini. Admission to Palazzo Barberini also includes entrance to its sister museum, Galleria Corsini, housed in a handsome 16th-century palace.
Rome has an extensive public transportation system consisting of the Metro (subway), bus, tram, and three suburban railway lines (FS) that move millions of passengers throughout the Italian capital each year. A convenient and relatively inexpensive way to get around, Rome's public transportation, operated by ATAC, will connect you to the Eternal City's most popular tourist attractions.
Here's what you need to know about getting around Rome on public transportation.
Rome's internal transportation system allows holders of tickets and passes to travel on all city transport within the time designated on the ticket purchased. The method you choose to use will depend on where you are going and your timing. For example, buses can get caught up in traffic, but the quicker-moving trams don't reach as many major tourist areas as buses do, and the three-line metro also might not be extensive enough to get you where you need to be. (Read more on the specific of each method below.) Check the ATAC site to plan your route.
The Metro (Metropolitana): It consists of three lines: A (orange), B (blue) and C (yellow). Operating on 60 km (37 miles) of tracks with 73 station stops, the Metro is an efficient system of trains that travel both underground (subway) and above-ground. Termini Station is the main hub of Metro, with Lines A and B intersecting there.
Commuter trains (Regional State Railways or FS): There are also three commuter train lines: Roma-Lido (to Ostia), Roma-Giardinetti (a narrow gauge, on-street railway), and Roma-Nord (to outlying suburbs). Commuter lines honor Metro/bus/tram tickets, as long as you are traveling within the city limits.
Buses: Slow-moving but frequent buses ply most major thoroughfares in Rome and connect the areas that Metro doesn't reach. To determine which bus stops where, look at the tall signs at the bus stops on the sidewalk, and find the bus line(s) that stops at or near where you need to go. Increasingly, digital signs list the series of buses scheduled to arrive at a stop, so you'll know how long you need to wait for your bus.
The biggest bus depots in central Rome and the ones you're most likely to rely on for sightseeing are located at Piazza Venezia (with most stops to the right of the Vittoriano monument), in front of Termini Station. Most buses bound for Vatican City stop at Borgo/Piazza Pia (at Castel Sant'Angelo) or at Piazza del Risorgimento, in front of the Vatican Museums.
Trams: Six tram lines run across Rome, and they have a certain old-school charm. Tram stops are usually on raised platforms in the middle of busy streets, so be sure to use marked pedestrian crosswalks to get to or from these platforms. They're a bit nicer and cleaner than buses, however, these do not take you to the city center, and do not run near any major tourist attractions, so they're not your best bet for sightseeing.
Despite being overcrowded and chronically behind schedule, for the most part, Rome's buses, trams, and commuter trains are reliable and highly efficient.
How to Buy: In Rome, you must have a ticket before boarding any public transportation. There are several places where you can buy B.I.T. tickets (biglietti), including kiosks at stations, in coffee bars, at tabacchi (tobacco shops) and newsstands (edicole). You can also buy regional and intercity train tickets online at TrenItalia and Italo, and bus/tram/commuter rail tickets via MyCicero app. Purchases by credit card can be made at automated ticket machines or online, but when buying a single ticket, cash is required.
How to Use: On the Metro, the ticket is inserted into automated ticket barriers when entering and exiting. On buses, trams and commuter rail passengers must validate their ticket in one of the yellow ticket machines inside the vehicle. Before getting on a train, you'll find green validation machines near track entrances. Most operators today accept contactless payments on smartphones, so in this case, there's no need to validate. But failure to stamp your paper ticket can result in fines of €55 and up.
Fares: Rides on all public transportation in Rome cost €1.50. Children 10 and under ride for free when accompanied by an adult.
Discount Fares: Discounted public transport passes are recommended for visitors, providing a better value than paying as you go. Purchase passes at vending machines in any metro station, tobacco shop, or newsstand. There's a way to buy tickets by SMS (text sent to your smartphone), but unless you have an Italian phone number, we don't recommend this option. Roma 24H (1-day) costs €7; Roma 48H (2-day) is €12.50; and Roma 72H (3-day) goes for €18. There's also a weekly ticket (CIS) for €24 (good for 7 calendar days).
Most of the main tourist attractions are located in the historic center, but several important sights like papal palaces, gardens, catacombs, parks, and lakes are farther afield. Many can be reached by taking a combination of the Metro and/or bus, but others are harder to get to. Here are a few alternative transits options you should know about.
For those who are looking for a fun and easy way to get around Rome, Scooterino is an app that sends a driver and an extra helmet to pick you up—just hop on the back and they'll take you where you want to go. There are also several companies in the city that offer electric bikes, electric scooters, gas-powered scooters and vintage Vespas for hire, too.
If you are renting a motorized scooter (motorino) to pilot yourself, you must have a valid drivers license (no special license is required for up to 125cc). Given Rome's hectic and often fast-moving traffic and fearless drivers, we recommend you have solid experience operating a motorcycle. Note: wearing a helmet is required by law.
You can rent human-powered road bikes, mountain bikes, trekking bikes, E-bikes, speed bikes, and tandem bikes. Consider joining a bike tour to get the most out of the experience.
Rome's official cabs are white, have a "taxi" sign on the roof and their license number printed on the doors. You cannot hail taxis on the street, but below are other ways to can get a cab in Rome:
Taxis rates are as follows: €2.80 (per km) from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. On Sundays and public holidays: €4. At night between 10 p.m. and 5:30 a.m., €5.80. If you're leaving from Termini train station, there's a €2 surcharge, plus a €1 charge per piece of luggage that has to go in the trunk. Fares begin when you get in or at the time you call for one (not when it arrives).
In Rome, Uber is only permitted to operate its UberX and UberPOOL (van) service. Drivers are required to have a town car NCC license, making it significantly more expensive than using taxis.
Unless you are planning to drive from Rome to other destinations not connected by the national rail system, we recommend you avoid driving in Rome. Not only is it expensive (gas costs as much as 2€ per liter, equaling about $8 per gallon), but street parking is scarce, the city is full of poorly marked, one-way streets, and traffic fines can be steep.
To rent a car in Italy you must be over 21 years old and have held a driver's license for at least a year. If visiting from outside the EU, you may be required to have an International Driving Permit (IDP), which you must apply for before leaving home. Check with your local automobile association for details.
There are two airports that serve Rome's metropolitan area and the surrounding regions of Lazio, Umbria, and Tuscany. Fiumicino Airport (FCO), also known as Leonardo da Vinci Airport, is a large, international hub served by long-haul flights. The second is Ciampino Airport (CIO), which is served mostly by budget airlines that fly to and from cities across Italy and Europe.
Airport transfers by train and bus take travelers to one of Rome's two main railway stations: Roma Termini (in the historic center) and Roma Tiburtina (just outside the walls). Both train stations have transit areas connecting to key destinations in Rome.
Fiumicino Airport: Located 31 km (22 miles) from the center of Rome, the easiest and quickest way to get to the main train station, Roma Termini, is by taking the Leonardo Express, a direct shuttle train. Departing from the airport's railway station every 20 minutes or so, the train costs €14 one way. A number of bus operators provide an economical option into the city with fares around €6-7 for the 45-minute journey. If you prefer to take a taxi, they charge a flat rate of €48 (to anywhere inside the Aurelian walls) but may add luggage and extra passenger surcharges.  
Ciampino Airport: This airport, 15 km (9 miles) from Rome's city center, offers several city transfer options, however, there's no direct train service. Airport buses are operated by Cotral, Terravision, Roma Airport Bus, and Sit, with rides costing between €6 and €7. The journey takes about 30-40 minutes, depending on traffic. The flat-rate taxi fare (anywhere within the Aurelian walls) is €30, which doesn't include baggage and extra passenger fees.
Rome, Italy, commonly referred to as the Eternal City, is a top travel destination that draws millions of visitors each year. An exuberant and modern world capital, Rome or Roma offers travelers fascinating reminders of its imperial past at every turn. It's also an international hub for contemporary fashion, design, art, and culture.
Encounter glorious monuments and ancient ruins dating as far back as at least the 3rd century BC. Marvel at the stunning Romanesque- and Gothic-style architecture, medieval churches, picturesque squares, Baroque fountains, and world-class museums. Besides having an almost unlimited number of sights and attractions to see, Rome is famous for its traditional Roman food and wine and its vibrant nightlife, as well as pretty urban parks and peaceful nature reserves.
Things to know before you go:
Rome has an extensive public transportation system that consists of the Metro (subway), buses, trams, and three suburban railway lines (FS). Convenient and relatively inexpensive, the network connects to Rome's most popular tourist attractions but can be sometimes unreliable and overcrowded, especially during the summer months.
With so much to do and see in Rome, we recommend you start by hitting the major tourist attractions first—especially if this is your first visit. Regardless, do make sure to leave time in your schedule for people watching on an intimate piazza or strolling down Rome's many charming streets and cobbled alleyways.
Here are just some of Rome's top attractions:
For more information and details about Rome's sights and attractions see our 3 Days in Rome: What to See and Do or The 25 Top Things to Do in Rome.
Traditional Roman cuisine is based on inexpensive cuts of meat like offal and simple pasta recipes such as cacio e pepe (pecorino cheese and black pepper) and spaghetti carbonara (egg, cheese, and pork cheek). Other Roman favorites include deep fried artichokes (carciofi alla giudia), supplì (stuffed balls of rice with tomato sauce), and thin, crisp-crusted pizza.
Frascati is a white wine blend made in an area just south of the city. Artisanal and craft beer has become quite popular recently with pubs cropping up all over the city. In speakeasies and chic hipster bars, cocktails are flowing after hours.
Read more about what to eat in Rome here.
With so many diverse and interesting neighborhoods in Rome, it's hard to choose where to stay. For easy access to the airport and public transportation, staying in a cozy B&B or friendly hostel near Termini Station makes a lot of sense. If you want to be where the action is, there are a myriad of lodging options in Trastevere, Monti, and the centralissimo (very central) area, though these quarters can be rather noisy at night. If romance is what you're after, consider staying at a historic luxury hotel along the famed Via Veneto or near the Spanish Steps, but expect to pay a premium for such stellar locations. If you're on a budget, self-catering Airbnbs are available all over the city, offering a great solution.
Need more ideas about where to stay in Rome? Check out budget hotel options and our guide to the 10 Neighborhoods You Need to Know in Rome.
There are two airports serving the Rome metropolitan area: Fiumicino (also known as Leonardo da Vinci) is the main international airport and Ciampino is a smaller, regional one. The best way to get into the city from the Fiumicino is by train to the main railway station closest to the historic center, Stazione Termini. You can also take airport buses to either Termini or Tiburtina station. We recommend you avoid driving in Rome if at all possible.
The Port of Civitavecchia is where cruise ships dock in Rome. See Civitavecchia to Rome Transportation for information about getting to the city or airport from here.
If you want to "do as the Romans do," then follow the bit of advice below.
For more information regarding the art of tipping in Italy, check out our article, When & How Much to Tip in Italy: The Complete Guide.
For budget-conscious travelers, here are a few ways to save a little coin without skimping on the fun.
Find out more about the cheapest ways to have fun by exploring our guide on visiting Rome on a budget.

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Getty Images
Rome is full of iconic tours that many travelers want to experience, and as a result, many people end up spending most of their time waiting to get in. The three-hour “Skip the Line Tour” of the Vatican, which includes St. Peter’s Basilica and the Sistine Chapel, is your “fast pass” to a special entrance to see some of Rome’s most amazing art and architecture. The guided tour explores the tapestry room, Gallery of the Maps and Raphael’s Rooms, as well as the Sistine Chapel to admire The Creation of Adam by Michelangelo. Explore St. Peter’s Basilica on a fully-guided Vatican walking tour (with headsets to clearly hear the guide) and see the famous La Pieta sculpture. 
Getty Images
Italy is famous for its fabulous cuisine and travelers can get a hands-on experience with the Small Group Pasta Making Class with a Local Chef. The intimate, 3.5-hour cooking class takes place in an airy loft in Rome and covers the basics of different types of pasta. While the chef explains Italian cooking, prosecco and appetizers are served to travelers. They’ll teach students how to make pasta from scratch and after the pasta is ready you can enjoy it on the outdoor terrace for wine and conversation as the chef answers questions about Italian cuisine. Viator members said that the small group size and casual atmosphere made it easy to get to know other travelers. 
Getty Images
If you’d like to mix sightseeing with plenty of dining, the Private Roman Food Tour is a great option. The three-hour tour includes a whopping 10 tastings in 10 stops — including classic Roman foods like suppli, a favorite street snack consisting of fried rice and tomato sauce. Foodies can try fresh fruits at the local market, an original Jewish ricotta pie in the Jewish district, Italian coffee at the most authentic coffee maker in Rome, chocolate, a Roman meat and cheese platter and a Sicilian patisserie. The tour guide will lead the walking tour on a route along the Pantheon, Museo di Roma and the Largo di Torre Argentina with commentary along the way.
Getty Images
If you’d like to take a break from the city and get out and explore famous regions near Rome, the Tuscany in One Day Sightseeing Tour is an excellent way to do so. The 12-hour tour begins with transportation from Rome in an air-conditioned coach through the dazzling Italian countryside to the Val d’Orcia region. From there, you'll take a walking tour around the medieval hill-town of Montepulciano where they’ll visit Sant' Antimo Abbey and soak in views over the vineyards of Montalcino. Then, a three-course lunch is served at a Tuscan farm with regional wines, including the famous Brunello di Montalcino. After lunch, there's leisure time in Pienza, a UNESCO World Heritage Site before returning to Rome. 
 Getty Images
If you’re the type of traveler who wants to explore in more depth, the Ancient Rome and Colosseum Underground Tour with Third Tier can help you do just that. The three-hour guided tour visits parts of the Colosseum that are off limits to the general public, like the underground chambers were wild animals were caged, passages used by gladiators before the games and even the arena floor —  as the knowledgeable guides tell all about past battles that took place. From there, the tour heads to Roman Forum to see the temples and learn about daily life in ancient times, politics and religion of Imperial Rome. 
Getty Images
Electric bicycles can be a fun way to get around town without missing the scenery and sights and the Rome City Bike Tour is a great way to make it happen. The three-hour tour is limited to 12 people and meets in Central Rome where you’ll board your electric bike. Soon, the guide leads the way past iconic sights like the Colosseum and the Pantheon on less-congested roads, as well as Campo de' Fiori, Piazza Navona, Venezia Square and the Capitoline Hill. You can also expect a great view of the Roman Forum. The guide will share interesting narrative as you also explore lesser-known passages and ancient walls with plenty of stops for photo opportunities.
 Getty Images
For a truly unique tour that’s especially good for teens and tweens, consider spending two hours at Gladiator School. This one-of-a-kind experience includes a hands-on lesson with instructors from the Historic Group of Rome. Participants will learn how to fight with authentic weapons of the Imperial Roman era while wearing traditional gladiator tunics and belts. After learning the techniques of the gladiator, travelers can join in an optional gladiator tournament and compete with a prize for the victor. All participants receive a certificate of accomplishment at the end of the experience. The gladiator instruction also includes entrance to the Gladiator School of Rome Museum to learn even more about life in Roman times. 
Getty Images
Night owls looking for a casual and entertaining evening tour should consider the Rome by Night with Pizza and Gelato Tour. The four-hour, small-group tour is a great way to mingle and begins with a stop at a classic Roman restaurant for pizza, drinks and gelato, followed by a chance to see the ancient sites and monuments. In addition to the Pantheon, travelers will stroll through the lovely Piazza Navona, home to three fountains, including Bernini's famous Fontana dei Quattro Fiumi (Fountain of the Four Rivers). During the day, the Trevi Fountain is crowded with people, but in the evening the crowds thin out and it becomes a pleasant place to unwind. The tour includes round-trip transportation in an eight-passenger minibus. 
Getty Images
For a fun twist on a classic sightseeing tour that doesn’t require a bus, consider the Rome Segway Tour. The guided, three-hour tour explores ancient Roman sites such as the Roman Forum and Circus Maximus — where chariot races were once held — and the Colosseum for photos and tales of gladiator battles. The small group experience (just eight people) begins near Piazza Venezia, where you’ll get a brief introduction to Segways before zipping off around the area — covering more ground than a walking tour. Groups also stop at the Church of Santa Maria to check out Bocca della Verità (the Mouth of Truth), a carved piece of marble made famous in the film, Roman Holiday. 
Here are 10 recommended guidebooks for Rome, which is one of the most popular travel destinations in Italy. In Rome you will find ancient Roman sites, medieval and Renaissance buildings and fountains, great museums, and a modern Italian city. You'll find it all in these books.
Written by Elizabeth Minchilli, who has been eating in Rome since she was 12, this book includes not only restaurants but food markets, coffee bars, gelato shops, and anything related to food in Rome. Find the best places to eat, recommended by Elizabeth. It's also available for Kindle.
Eyewitness Travel Guides have lots of photos, floor plans, and maps, as well as suggestions about what to see, where to go, and what to do in Rome.
The National Geographic Traveler's book includes photos and detailed maps, mapped walking tours, and visitor information.
This well-written, in-depth book presents 10 different walks through the city with lots of detail about monuments and history. This is a great book for those who want something more than the usual guidebook.
"Quiet Corners of Rome" by David Downie explores 60 peaceful places of beauty in Rome, away from the noise and crowds of the city, each with beautiful photos. The book is small and easy to carry along on your visit to Rome. It's also a great gift book or book for the armchair traveler.
"Rome the Second Time," part of the Curious Traveler Series, has 15 itineraries that don't go to the Colosseum. If you've been to Rome before and want to see something more than the usual tourist sites, this book has detailed suggestions. It's full of interesting tidbits so it's a good read even if you're not doing the walks. It's also available for Kindle.
A follow up to "Rome the Second Time," Modern Rome outlines walks in three different 20th-century Roman neighborhoods and on the staircases of Trastevere. It's also interesting to read even if you're not going to do the walks. The book is available on Kindle, but it can be difficult to read the maps in the basic Kindle format, so if you really want to do the walks you may prefer the paperback version.
Lonely Planet has more than 800 places to go in Rome and 30 maps. There are local tips from residents of Rome and information about history, art, and architecture, as well as where to eat and drink. It's also available on Kindle.
While this book is fiction, it's a good introduction to the rise of early Christianity and the lives of Saints John and Paul. Read the book before you visit the Case Romane archeological site, ancient Roman houses and early Christian site below the Church of Saints John and Paul in Rome. It's also available on Kindle.
Flavors of Rome takes a look at the food of Rome and how it will be different from Italian food in the United States. There are good restaurant recommendations and a handy food glossary at the end. The book is small and lightweight so easy to carry on a trip to Rome.
The glories of ancient Rome are easily accessible to the visitor. Some sites can be visited for free while others are part of Rome Passes and Cards. Most ancient sites are in Rome's historic center so you can visit several places in one day. Even if you don't have time to take an in-depth look, just walking by some of these places is incredible and gives you an overview of ancient Rome's history.
Ancient Rome's huge amphitheater, holding up to 55,000 people, was built by Emperor Vespasian in 80 A.D. and was the scene of many deadly gladiatorial and wild animal fights. Today you may see men dressed in gladiatorial costume as you walk between the Colosseum and the nearby Arch of Constantine, built in 315 A.D. On Sundays, the Via dei Fori Imperiali leading to the Colosseum is closed to traffic so it's a great place for a stroll (if you don't mind the souvenir vendors).
Ticket lines can be long but there are several ways to buy Colosseum tickets faster including buying a Colosseum and Roman Forum pass online from Select Italy.
Stella Levantesi / TripSavvy 
Rome's Pantheon, the temple of all the gods, was built between 118-125 A.D. by Emperor Hadrian. In the 7th century it was made into a church by early Christians and now is lined with tombs. Go inside to see the spectacular dome. Admission is free. The Pantheon is the best-preserved building of ancient Rome and today is surrounded by a pleasant and lively piazza, a nice place to sit in the evening and enjoy a drink. A good nearby restaurant is Armando's, on a street coming off the piazza.
The ancient Roman Forum is a huge complex of ruined temples, basilicas, and arches. It was the ceremonial, legal, social, and business center of ancient Rome (The food stalls and brothels were removed in the second century B.C.). To get a good view, walk up the Capitoline Hill behind the museums. Give yourself at least 1-2 hours to wander around, then continue up to the Palatine Hill, also included in the ticket.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
The emperors and aristocrats of ancient Rome lived on the Palatine Hill starting in the first century B.C. The Domus Flavia and Domus Augustana, built in the first century A.D., where the official residence of the emperors for over 300 years. Admission also includes the Palatine Museum, the Roman Forum, and Colosseum.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
Above the Roman Forum, the Capitoline Hill was Rome's symbolic center and held the Temple of Jupiter. Today there are two museums, the oldest public museums in the world, the Palazzo Nuovo, with Greek and Roman sculptures, and the Palazzo dei Conservatori, with art galleries, sculptures, and frescoes. One ticket gives you admission to both. Just like in ancient Rome, the hill still has the best view of Rome's center.
Stella Levantesi / TripSavvy
Originally built as a stadium in the first century for athletic contests and chariot races, Piazza Navona is now lined with luxurious cafes and is the home to three lavish Baroque fountains. The much-touted ice-cream dessert, tartufo, is said to have originated here and you can still try it in the cafes as a splurge.
The Baths of Diocletian, once covering 32 acres, were the largest public baths or thermae in ancient Rome. Although much of the original structure has been destroyed, remains of the baths are now part of the National Roman Museum. Several painted tombs have been moved and reconstructed inside the baths. They can be seen when you visit the baths, open every day except Monday. The baths can be visited with the Four museums ticket and Rome archeology card.
At the foot of the Aventine hill are the monumental ruins of the Baths of Caracalla, used from the 2nd to 6th century A.D. Taking a bath was a social event for the people of ancient Rome and the huge complex could hold up to 1600 bathers! Besides baths, they held an array of facilities such as a gym, art galleries, gardens, and shops selling food and drinks.
Thought to be the world's oldest shopping mall, the arcades in Trajan's Market are now believed by many to be administrative offices for Emperor Trajan. The shops and apartments were built in a multi-level structure and you can visit several of the levels. Highlights include delicate marble floors and the remains of a library. The Museum of the Imperial Forums houses a wealth of artifacts from all of ancient Rome's forums.
Under the Church of Saints John and Paul are excavations of Roman buildings, including what's believed to be the house of the two saints and an early Christian worship site. The Roman buildings were discovered during excavations to find the tombs of John and Paul and are now open to the public along with a small museum.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
The Via Appia was once the major road to ancient Rome with construction starting in 312 B.C. The Appian Way is now a 10-mile long archaeological park, lined with ruins of tombs and monuments. A good way to visit is by bike, although you may also enjoy walking it. Some of the catacombs, burial places of the early Christians, are open for public tours - check for the time of the English tour when you arrive.
The Roman Guy offers a good guided Appian Way Catacomb tour that includes a tour under San Clemente Church and transportation.
Although not actually in Rome, the ruins of the ancient Roman port of Ostia Antica, easily accessible from Rome on public transportation, are well worth a visit. It's a huge complex and you can easily spend several hours wandering around the old streets, shops, and houses. You should plan at least a half day for this trip.
Tourists can find events in Rome any time of year because there's always something going on. While Easter is a popular time for tourists, there are plenty of secular and cultural events to intrigue even the most seasoned traveler.
Here's a month-by-month list of some of the biggest events in one of the most captivating cities in the world.
New Year's Day is a national holiday in Italy. Most shops, museums, restaurants, and other services will be closed so that Romans can recover from New Year's Eve festivities.
Jan. 6 is Epiphany and Befana. Epiphany is officially the twelfth day of Christmas and one on which Italian children celebrate the arrival of La Befana, a good witch. In Vatican City a procession of hundreds of people dressed in medieval costume walks along the wide avenue leading up to the Vatican, carrying symbolic gifts for the Pope who says a morning mass in Saint Peter's Basilica for Epiphany.
Jan. 17 is Saint Anthony's Day (Festa di San Antonio Abate). The feast celebrates the patron saint of butchers, domestic animals, basket makers, and gravediggers. In Rome, this feast day is celebrated at the church of Sant'Antonio Abate on the Esquiline Hill and the traditional "Blessing of the Beasts" that accompanies this day takes place in the nearby Piazza Sant'Eusebio.
Depending on the date of Easter, the beginning of Lent and Carnevale may begin as early as Feb. 3. Carnevale and Lent are among the most exciting times to be in Rome, as both the pre-Lenten festivities (Carnevale) and the religious processions, which begin on Ash Wednesday, are part of the tradition in the capital and the Vatican City. Carnevale events in Rome start ten days before the actual Carnevale date, with many events taking place in Piazza del Popolo.
The Festa Della Donna or Women's Day is celebrated on March 8. Restaurants in Rome typically have special Women's Day menus.
On March 14, also known as the Ides of March, Roman's mark the anniversary of Julius Caesar's death in the Roman Forum near his statue.
Easter, which usually falls in March or April, is one of the busiest times of the year in Rome and Vatican City, with many religious events to mark the death and resurrection of Jesus in the Christian church. The events culminate with an Easter Mass in St. Peter's Square.
Then later in March, the annual Maratona di Roma (Marathon of Rome) takes place in the city, with a course that takes runners past the ancient city's most famous monuments.
Like Easter, the day after Easter, La Pasquetta, is also a national holiday in Rome. Many Romans celebrate with day trips or picnics outside the city, and the day ends with fireworks over the Tiber River.
The Festa della Primavera, a festival which marks the beginning of spring, sees the Spanish Steps decorated with hundreds of pink azaleas. In mid-April, Romans mark the Settimana della Cultura or Week of Culture. National museums and archaeological sites have free admission and some sites not normally open to the public may be open.
The Founding of Rome (Rome's Birthday) is celebrated on or near April 21. Rome is said to have been founded by the twins Romulus and Remus in 753 BC. Special events, including gladiatorial displays at the Colosseum, are part of the festivities.
And on April 25, Romans mark Liberation Day, the day Italy was liberated at the end of World War II. Commemorative ceremonies are held at the Quirinale Palace and other places across the city and country.
Primo Maggio, May 1, is a national holiday in Italy marking Labor Day, the celebration of workers. There's a concert in Piazza San Giovanni, and usually, protest rallies as well. Most sites and museums are closed, but it's a good day to take in some of the open-air sites in and around the city.
A new group of Swiss Guards is sworn in at the Vatican every May 6, the date that marks the sack of Rome in 1506. The general public is not invited to this ceremony, but if you can coordinate a guided tour of the Vatican that day, you may be able to catch a glimpse of the swearing-in.
Sometime in early or mid-May, Rome hosts the Internazionali BNL d'Italia, also known as the Italian Open, at the tennis courts at Stadio Olimpico. This nine-day, clay court event is the largest tennis tournament before the Grand Slam French Open tournament and attracts many major tennis players.
Republic Day or Festa della Repubblica is celebrated June 2. This big national holiday is akin to Independence Days in other countries, commemorating the date in 1946 that Italy became a Republic. A huge parade is held on the Via dei Fori Imperiali followed by music in the Quirinale Gardens.
Romans celebrate numerous religious holidays in June, including Corpus Domini, 60 days after Easter Sunday, the Feast of St. John (San Giovanni) on June 23, and Saints Peter and Paul Day on June 29.
The Expo Tevere arts and crafts fair extends along the banks of the Tiber from Ponte Sant'Angelo to Ponte Cavour, with artisan food stands to sell wines, olive oils, and vinegar. It's scheduled in early to mid-July and is a great place for tourists to purchase authentic Roman wares.
During the last two weeks of July, the Festa dei Noantri (which translates as "Festival for the Rest of Us") is celebrated, centered around the Feast of Santa Maria del Carmine. This very local festival sees the statue of Santa Maria, adorned in handmade finery, being moved around from church to church in the Trastevere neighborhood and accompanied by bands and religious pilgrims.
Throughout July and August, there will be music concerts at the Castel Sant'Angelo and other outdoor venues, including Rome's squares and parks and the ancient Baths of Caracalla.
The Festa della Madonna Della Neve ("Madonna of the Snow") celebrates the legend of the miraculous August snow that fell in the 4th century, signaling the faithful to build the church of Santa Maria Maggiore. A re-enactment of the event is carried out with artificial snow and a special sound and light show.
The traditional beginning of the summer holidays for most Italians is Ferragosto, which falls on the religious holiday of the Assumption, Aug. 15. There are dance and music festivals on this day.
The summer heat begins to subside in September, making outdoor activities a little more pleasant and public places a little less crowded with tourists. In early September, the harvest festival known as the Sagra dell'Uva (Festival of the Grape) is held at the Basilica of Constantine in the Forum. During this holiday, Romans celebrate the grape, a food which is a huge part of Italian agriculture, with large bushels of grapes and wine for sale.
And early September is also the beginning of football (soccer) season. Rome has two teams: AS Roma and SS Lazio, rivals who share the Stadio Olimpico playing field. Games are held on Sundays.
Late September sees numerous arts, crafts and antiques fairs across Rome.
In October, Rome sees many arts and theater events, along with one big religious celebration. The Feast of St. Francis of Assisi, on Oct. 3, marks the 1226 anniversary of the Umbrian saint's death. Romans celebrate with a wreath-laying near the Basilica of San Giovanni in Laterano.
Since 1976, The Rome Jazz Festival has attracted some of the top jazz musicians from around the world. It used to be held during the summer but is now in late October, at the Auditorium Parco Della Musica.
On Nov. 1, All Saints is a public holiday when Italians remember their deceased loved ones by visiting graves and cemeteries.
The Roma Europa Festival is ongoing throughout the month of November. The program has a wide variety of performance art, contemporary dance, theater, music, and film. And the young but thriving International Rome Film Festival in mid-November takes place at the Auditorium Parco Della Musica.
On Nov. 22, Romans celebrate the Feast of St. Cecilia at Santa Cecilia in Trastevere.
During Hanukkah, Rome's large Jewish community look to Piazza Barberini, where candles on a giant menorah are lit each evening.
Christmas in Rome begins in early December, as Christmas markets start selling handmade gifts, crafts, and treats. The nativity display in Sala del Bramante near Piazza del Popolo features nativity scenes from around the world.
On Dec. 8, the feast of the Immaculate Conception, the Pope leads a caravan from the Vatican to Piazza di Spagna, where he lays a wreath at the Colonna dell'Immacolata in front of Trinita dei Monti Church.
Christmas Eve is the night when nativity displays are traditionally completed by adding the baby Jesus or are unveiled, such as the life-size nativity in Saint Peter's Square. On Christmas Day, most businesses are closed, but midnight mass at St. Peter's Basilica is a unique Roman experience, even for those who are not practicing Christians.
And just as it is all over the world, New Year's Eve, which coincides with the Feast of Saint Sylvester (San Silvestro), is celebrated with much fanfare in Rome. Piazza del Popolo has the city's biggest public celebration with music, dancing, and fireworks.
There are two stages of nightlife in Rome: early and late. The first part of the evening always kicks off with aperitivo, Italy’s answer to happy hour. Considering that dinner rarely starts before 8 p.m. at the earliest, aperitivo is the perfect way to unwind with a cocktail and some earlier snacks, though some neighborhood spots even offer a full buffet starting around 6 p.m.
Clubs and bars fall into the latter (or later) category of Roman nightlife. Considering that dinner is always after 8 p.m., these hotspots don’t really kick off until midnight, and you are going to be pretty lonely if you show up before 11 p.m.
In terms of the coolest areas to go out at night in Rome, the best dance clubs can be found slightly outside of the center, in neighborhoods like Ostiense and San Giovanni. Testaccio was also once known for its nightclubs dug into the side of Monte Testaccio, but these have declined in popularity in recent years. Other areas, like Pigneto and San Lorenzo, are known for their large student populations, cheap beers, and outdoor crowds who take to pub-hopping on Friday and Saturday nights.
In the summer months, white tents line the river banks along the river near Tiber Island. These outdoor bars and restaurants are most popular for a few drinks at sunset but stay open until the early hours of the morning.
Just remember: while there are very rarely any enforced dress codes, Romans tend to dress to impress. Keeping a step above casual is always a good idea when it comes to enjoying Rome’s varied nightlife scene. And don't worry if you end up burning the midnight oil – there will be plenty of espresso available to keep you going the next day. 
Courtesy of The Jerry Thomas Project Rome 
Rome’s most famous speakeasy has been lauded as one of the top bars in the world thanks to its dedication to mixology. If you want to taste their one-of-a-kind concoctions, you first need to make a reservation, then check the website for the daily password before you arrive. Inside, the tiny bar is filled with Rome’s cool crowd, dressed in black and smoking while sipping on the cocktails made with the bar’s own bitters and specially imported liquors from all over the world. 
Courtesy of Goa Club 
With space for more than 700 partiers, Goa is one of Rome’s most popular nightclubs. The club is located in Ostiense, an urban area just outside the center of Rome that is known for its street art and (increasingly) its nightlife options. The techno club regularly books international DJs for its buzzing Thursday, Friday, and Saturday night lineups. Once you have danced away, sink into one of the couches in the bar lounge area for one last drink.
Natalie Kennedy
Serious beer drinkers don’t have to look any further than this tiny pub on small street behind Piazza Trilussa in Trastevere. The craft beer scene has grown significantly in Rome in recent years but Ma Che Siete Venuti a Fa (which translates to “but what did you come here to do?”) was one of the first and remains one of the very best. The laid-back bar staff and patrons are here to drink hard-to-find artisan brews from Italy and Europe and enjoy the relaxed atmosphere where most customers end up chatting outside with a pint in hand when the narrow bar gets too full. 
Courtesy of Bar del Fico
This bar a few minutes from Piazza Navona is a staple on the Roman nightlife scene, but it actually stays busy from early morning. A coffee bar with chess players by day, the crowds gets younger by the time aperitivo rolls around. Pay for your drink first, and then take the receipt to the barman to watch your cocktail being created with a little bit of flair. The bar’s most popular feature, however, is its outdoor patio that fills with a bigger and bigger crowd the later the night gets.
Courtesy of Blackmarket Monti
This cozy cocktail bar and occasional music venue fits in perfectly with the Monti neighborhood’s overall bohemian vibe. Stuffed with a mish-mash of vintage furniture, Blackmarket is made up of a warren of small rooms that are perfect for everything from people-watching to privacy, depending on your mood. The intimate setting is dark and filled with art, adding to the low-key, romantic ambiance.
Courtesy of Drink Kong
The 1980s live on at this thoroughly modern hotspot in Monti. The neon lights and Blade Runner-esque decor may be throwbacks but the cocktail bar’s drinks are truly futuristic. Drink Kong is the newest venture from Patrick Pistolesi, one of Rome’s most famous bartenders, and the carefully crafted cocktails are the star of the show. To round out your night, stop in when there’s live music or come in any day for the tasty small plates of international tapas-style food. 
Courtesy of Alcazar Live 
Located in the heart of Trastevere, Live Alcazar is a music venue and club set inside of an old movie theater. The bar has a regularly changing lineup of touring musicians, most of whom play jazz and funk, but there are also regular DJ nights for more of a dance club feel. The bar specializes in cocktails, and you can also reserve a table at the restaurant that overlooks the stage from the second floor. The crowd here tends to be slightly more subdued than the dance-lovers who flock to techno clubs further outside the city center, but the energy is still right for a good night out.
Courtesy of Google
Scholars Lounge was recently named the title Best Irish Pub in the World at the Irish Pubs Global Awards in Dublin. The lively bar is certainly Rome’s largest Irish pub and attracts a huge international crowd on weekend nights and when big games are being played. Filled with screens, this is Rome’s best sports bar, and they will put just about any international game on TV upon request. They also host weekly nights dedicated to trivia and karaoke and often have live music. The central location means this bar is popular and has slightly higher prices, but the pints are always served by charming Irish barmen.
Courtesy of Necci dal 1924
Pigneto, one of Rome's most popular neighborhoods for all-nighters, is best known for its cheap drinks and the lively crowd which gathers along the main drag to bar hop between pubs. However, one of the oldest bars in the formerly working-class area is still one of the best in the city. Necci dal 1924 is the kind of place to order an Americano to sip under the twinkling lights on the patio and has great evening energy, while at the same time having pockets where it is quiet enough to actually have a conversation with friends.
Courtesy of Circolo degli Illuminati 
This huge club between the Ostiense and Garbatella areas of Rome is one of the best stops for House and electronic music. With three different rooms, there is always a different sound (and a dancing crowd) ready to go. DJs like Skrillex have performed at Circolo degli Illuminati, but even when there is no international headliner, Saturday night is always a good time.
Courtesy of Il Goccetto
What is Rome without wine? Cocktails are usually the drink of choice for Romans on a true night out, but quieter evenings call for the perfect bottle of Italian wine inside Rome's sweetest wine bar. Il Goccetto gives over most of its bar space to its extensive selection of wine, but there are a few tables to be had among the stacks of bottles. It is no great tragedy if there are no seats available because the best thing to do is to take your glass outside to sip while watching the Vespas zip by along the tiny cobblestone street just outside the door.
Natalie Kennedy
Set atop Palazzo Fendi, where the Italian luxury brand has its flagship store, Zuma is nothing if not chic. The Japanese-inspired bar serves signature cocktails, as well as Italian wines by the glass, plus small nibbles like edamame or crispy calamari. Not only is the bar above the Fendi store, but it is also set in the very heart of Rome's most fashionable district, so the customers tend to look like they may have just stepped off a runway. The cozy lounge inside is perfect for a few drinks, but the bar is best in summer when the cocktails are served on the rooftop terrace overlooking Via Condotti, Rome's best shopping street.
Courtesy of Coho Apartment 
Coho is where the young and beautiful of Rome come to see and be seen. The trendy space is designed to look like your most fashionable friend’s uptown loft and is filled with couches overlooking the cityscape below. But it’s not all lounging and preening, there is also another floor for dancing and an extensive drink list to suit any taste. 
The Eternal City is a glorious place to visit all year round. There's really no "bad" time to visit Rome, but keep in mind that July and August can be hot and humid, and December through March are on the chilly side. Most would agree that the best time to visit Rome is between September and November and April to May when the crowds are fewer, days are bright and sunny, and evenings are crisp and cool—usually only requiring a light jacket.
But no matter what time of the year you decide to travel to Rome, before you make your vacation plans it's a good idea to consider a number of factors, including crowds, weather, special events, and budget.
Rome has a Mediterranean climate with cool, wet winters and hot, humid summers. Temperatures in July and August can easily exceed 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 degrees Celsius), with humidity to match. The rest of the year's climate is pleasant, with low temperatures hovering around 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4 degrees Celsius). December, January, and February are the coldest months of the year, though the mercury rarely dips below 30 degrees Fahrenheit (-1 degree Celsius). Snowfall is not unheard of, although it rarely accumulates. October and November are Rome's rainiest months.
June, July, and August see the heaviest tourist traffic in Rome because many people take their holidays in the summer during the school break. If you decide to visit during the high season, be prepared for large crowds and long waits in lines at popular attractions. Rain is possible, but unlikely, making summer the ideal for sightseeing, dining at outdoor cafés, and eating gelato, which is why so many travelers plan their trips during this time.
Spring and fall are also popular seasons for travelers. March weather is slightly more variable (and chillier) than April when the city begins to warm up. Holy Week (Easter Week, which depending on the lunar calendar is between March and April) is an exceptionally busy time in Rome, particularly as you get closer to Vatican City. Meanwhile, the light is never as golden and luminous as it is in October and November. Keep in mind that these are some of the wettest months, but fall can be a great time to take advantage of smaller crowds and discounted room rates.
Not to be counted out, winter is actually a really good time to visit, especially for those who want to save money on lodging, and see tourist attractions and sites in the historic center without the long lines and crushing crowds. December through February sees relatively mild weather, allowing you to slow down and take in everyday Roman life, but be sure to pack a heavy jacket, a hat, a cozy scarf, and warm gloves.
In January temperatures dip, but sunny days are also likely. Considered Rome's low season, there are still quite a lot of things to do since The Eternal City never closes.
Events to check out:
Not unlike January, February in Rome is cold but almost devoid of tourists, which means you'll have free rein to enjoy the capital at a leisurely pace.
Events to check out:
Spring can also be a busy time in Rome because thousands of Christians flock to Rome during Easter Week (falling sometime in March or April) to visit St. Peter’s Basilica and the Vatican Museums. Many hotels charge the highest price during this period.
Events to check out:
When Holy Week falls in April, festivities culminate with Easter (Pasqua) mass in Saint Peter's Square, filling to capacity with nearly 80,000 pilgrims.
Events to check out:
In the days following Holy Week, there's a bump in tourism, so be sure to make your airline and hotel bookings early.
Events to check out:
In June, you'll see a distinct rise in the number of tourists with young children, so be sure to book reservations to the most family-friendly sites ahead of time.
Events to check out:
Historically the hottest month of the year, temps can reach near 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius) and it can be quite muggy. Beat the heat inside churches and museums during the day, strolling along the streets at night, when Rome is at its most vibrant.
Events to check out:
August can be as hot as July with temperatures soaring under the intense Roman sun. However, since this is the time many Romans like to head to the seashore, the city can be surprisingly quiet.
Events to check out:
As kids go back to school, crowds start to thin out somewhat in September, and weather becomes a wee bit more pleasant. Days will still be warm, but you'll feel autumn temperatures starting to creep in on cool evenings.
Events to check out:
Fall colors and cooler temps abound, and so do arts, crafts, and antique fairs.
Events to check out:
Winter is just around the corner, but blue skies and warm afternoons linger.
Events to check out:
As you might imagine, Christmas in Rome is magical, with elaborate nativity scenes everywhere and brightly colored lights strung throughout the streets of the historic center.
Events to check out:
Here's our selection of best rated hotels in Rome. Click on a link to see the best hotels that fit with where you want to stay in Rome.
In Rome's historic center you'll find ancient monuments, medieval and Renaissance architecture, museums, lively squares, and restaurants. All of these hotels are centrally located near restaurants and sights. If you want to be in the center, check out these top rated hotels.
Termini Station is Rome's main train station and has connecting trains to Fiumicino airport. If you're arriving by train, you may want to consider staying near the station for convenience. You can still walk to many of Rome's sights or use public transportation to get around. These are the top rated hotels near Termini Station.
Rome's Trastevere neighborhood is a charming area across the Tiber River from the main tourist attractions. Trastevere makes a good place to stay for those who don't want to be in the midst of the tourist crowds. These are top-rated hotels, guest houses, bed and breakfast inns, and apartments in Trastevere.
If you want to spend time in Vatican City visiting Saint Peter's Basilica and the Vatican Museums, you might want to stay near Vatican City. These top-rated hotels and bed and breakfast inns are near Saint Peter's Square and the Vatican.
For those traveling on a budget, these Rome top-rated hotels are a good option. These budget hotels are still centrally located, either near historic sites or the train station.
For those who like luxury on a vacation, Rome has beautiful grand hotels in the 5-star luxury category. Most grand hotels are near the fashionable Via Veneto or Borghese Gardens and come with views and luxurious decor. These are the top rated 5-star luxury hotels in Rome.
These are good hotels I've stayed in myself or that were recommended by friends who stayed in them. I recommend these Rome hotels based on my personal experience.
If your cruise ship or ferry leaves from or arrives in Civitavecchia, Rome's Port, it may be less expensive and more convenient to stay in Civitavecchia rather than going back and forth to Rome with your luggage. These are suggested hotels for staying in Civitavecchia.
Fiumicino Airport, sometimes known as Aeroporto Leonardo da Vinci di Fiumicino, is Italy's largest airport. If you are arriving on a late night flight or departing on an early morning flight, you might want to stay near the airport. Here are top rated hotels near​ Fiumicino airport.
If you'd prefer to stay outside the city and experience a bit of country life, an agriturismo, or farm holiday house, might be a good option. These farmhouses are in Lazio, the region that surrounds Rome.
Rome has many interesting churches with fine artwork worth a visit. Many churches stay open all day but some close for a few hours in the afternoon. These churches have free entrance but some have museums, cloisters, or archaeological areas with a fee.
When entering a church you're expected to be quiet and respectful. Men should remove hats. Some churches won't let you in wearing shorts or sleeveless tops. Most churches allow photos inside with some restrictions.
San Giovanni, Saint John, is Rome's cathedral and the first church of the popes, from the fourth century until the papacy moved to France in 1309. The pope's residence was in the adjoining Lateran Palace. This is the site of the first Christian church ever built in Rome. The current church is Baroque and has cloisters and a museum that can be visited. Be sure to visit the baptistery next door and the Scala Santa and Sancta Sanctorum across the street.
St. Peter's Basilica, San Pietro in Vaticano, is in Vatican City so technically not in Rome. San Pietro is the current church of the pope and one of the largest and most important Catholic churches in the world. Inside the vast interior, there's lots of marble, bronze, and gold artwork, including Michelangelo's Pieta. You can visit Saint Peter's for free but you'll have to pay to see the adjoining Sistine Chapel, with its famous frescoes by Michelangelo and Botticelli, and the Vatican Museums.
Another of the four papal churches, Santa Maria Maggiore has beautiful 5th-century Biblical mosaics. The marble floor, bell tower, and mosaics on the triumphal arch and in the loggia are medieval. Its spectacular ceiling is said to be decorated with gold Columbus brought back from the new world.
The fourth patriarchal or papal church of Rome is San Paulo Fuori la Mura, Saint Paul Outside the Walls, two kilometers from the San Paolo Gate along via Ostiense. It also holds many art treasures and relics including the chains believed to have been used on Paul when he was under arrest.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
The Pantheon, built in the year 118 as the Roman temple of all gods, is the best preserved ancient building in Rome. Its vast dome has a circular opening at the top that lets in the only light. In the seventh century, early Christians turned the Pantheon into a church. Inside are many tombs, some holding the bodies of Italian monarchs.
San Clemente, near the Colosseum, is my favorite because of its layers of archaeological excavations underneath, illustrating Rome's interesting history. The current 12th-century church sits on top of the 4th-century church that was built over ruins of 1st-century Roman buildings and a 2nd-century Mithraic cult chamber. The best way to visit the excavations is on a guided tour.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
San Pietro in Vincoli, also near the Colosseum, was founded in the fifth century to hold the chains that are believed to be those that held St. Peter captive in Mamertine Prison. According to legend, one set of chains was sent to Constantinople and when it was returned to Rome, the two parts miraculously fused together. The church is also home of the famous statue of Moses by Michelangelo, the center of the work known as the tomb of Julius II.
Basilica di Santa Croce in Gerusalemme, Holy Cross in Jerusalem, is one of Rome's popular pilgrimage churches. Santa Croce is a beautiful Baroque church known for its collection of relics. There's also a replica of the Shroud of Turin, the shrine of a young girl being considered for sainthood, and 15th-century frescoes in the apse. Santa Croce started as a church in the fourth century and still has granite columns from the original church. It's been remodeled several times and the church we see today is from the 18th century remodel.
The monastic and archaeological complex includes gardens set in the Castrense amphitheater. There's also a hotel run by the monks, Domus Sessoriana. Santa Croce is near San Giovanni in Laterano (see above).
Santa Maria in Cosmedin, between the river and the Circus Maximus, is the most important Greek church in Rome and has some beautiful Byzantine mosaics. In front you'll see lots of tourists sticking their hands into the Boca Della Verita, mouth of truth, a medieval drain cover sculpted to look like a face. According to medieval legend, if you've been untruthful the mouth will snap shut and cut off your hand. Try it at your own risk!
Trastevere is the neighborhood across the Tiber River from Rome's historic center. Santa Maria in Trastevere is one of Rome's oldest churches and believed to be the first church in Rome dedicated to the Virgen Mary. It originally dates from the late third to early fourth century but was rebuilt in the twelfth century. The church is famous for a Byzantine mosaic behind the altar and a number of 13th-century mosaics. The piazza has a beautiful octagonal fountain.
Another of Rome's Santa Maria churches, Santa Maria Sopra Minerva by the Pantheon is Rome's only Gothic-style church. It was built in the 13th century over what is believed to have been the Temple of Minerva. There's a good collection of art here, including another Michelangelo, Christ Carrying the Cross, and the tombs of St. Catherine, Fra Angelico, and the 16th century Medici popes. Outside is a Bernini sculpture of an elephant with an obelisk on its back.
Santa Maria del Popolo, in Piazza del Popolo, was one of the first Renaissance churches in Rome. The church features Caravaggio's Martyrdom of St. Peter and Conversion of St. Paul. In the Chigi Chapel, created by Raphael, are ceiling mosaics and pyramid-like tombs as well as statues by Bernini.
