Siena is a classic medieval hill town in Tuscany famous for its large fan-shaped piazza or main square. Piazza del Campo is the heart of the town and is the home to the famous summer horse-race, known as Il Palio. Its peak was about 1260-1348 when it was one of Europe's wealthiest cities and many of its buildings and artworks originate from that time.
Siena is about 200km north of Rome and 60km south of Florence near the center of the Tuscany region. The famous Chianti Wine Region runs between Siena and Florence. For typical temperatures and rainfall to help you decide when to go, see Siena Weather and Historic Climate.
I stayed at the Arcobaleno Hotel, a nice hotel outside the walls within walking distance of the center. See more Top Rated Siena Hotels.
If you're traveling with friends or family Villa Pipistrelli, in the hills near Siena, would make a great lodging choice. The luxurious villa has its own private infinity pool, a large well-appointed kitchen, and a fireplace for winter.
Siena's most famous festival is Il Palio di Siena, a horse race run in Piazza del Campo on July 2 and August 16. Winning the palio is a huge honor and the race is highly competitive. There are other festivities around the days of the palio, too. The races are very crowded - you might be able to snag a standing place, reserved seats are usually sold out in advance.
Take a virtual tour of the top sights with our Siena Picture Gallery. Then take an in-depth look at the Duomo Interior. Enjoy these Siena Palio Photos taken at the palio in July 2005, by Joe Bauwens and Marybeth Flower, photographers who created the book Piazza, Italy's Heart and Soul.
Siena is 2-3 hours from Rome by train and 3-4 hours from Milan. The closest airports are Florence and Pisa (see Italy Airports Map). You can reach Siena by train or bus from other cities in Tuscany. Buses take you into the historic center. The train station is outside the center and connected by bus. Traffic is limited within the walls but there are parking lots outside the center that are served by shuttle bus. Some are within walking distance if you don't mind a long walk.
The countryside outside of Siena is beautiful and unusual. You'll come across small villages, medieval hill towns, grape vines, and olive trees. The Crete Senese is the area of clay hills south of Siena, a striking and barren landscape.
North of Siena is the Chianti Classico wine region. If you want to go wine tasting, see our Tips for Visiting Chianti Wineries.
Monteriggioni is a small and picturesque walled town with 14 towers very near Siena. In less than an hour's drive, you can visit San Gimignano or the wine towns of Montepulciano and Montalcino.
