At just over 53,000 square feet, H2Oooohh! at Split Rock Resort is a medium-sized indoor waterpark. There are larger parks in the Poconos, including the enormous Kalahari Pocono Mountains (which is one of the biggest indoor water parks in the world). But H2Oooohh! (yes, that's the name, including the extra "Os" and the exclamation mark) has a decent assortment of attractions and things to do.
Among its highlights is the Komodo Dragon, a FlowRider boogie board and stand-up surfing wave-making ride. Other features include a family raft ride, a large wave pool, the Amazon Blast water slides, the Lava Springs hot tubs, and the usual complement of slides and water attractions. Younger kids will enjoy attractions designed specifically for them such as Jungle Falls and Leapin' Lizards, two play areas
With over 500 suites and rooms, the Split Rock Resort is among the Poconos' larger hotels. Amenities and features beyond the water park include 27 holes of championship golf, conference facilities, a movie theater, restaurants, bowling lanes, arcade, and mini-golf. The resort also offers packages that include nearby activities such as paintballing, golfing, white water rafting, skiing, and snowboarding.
The water park is open to registered hotel guests, but offers day passes to the general public as well. Reduced rates are available for children under 42", for seniors, and for “observers” that don’t plan to go in the water. The park also offers discounted"Twilight” passes which are good for the last four hours of operation. 3-day and 2-day reduced-price passes are available. Hotel guests get a discount on admission. Hotel packages are available that include water park passes. Check with the Split Rock Resort.
Party packages are available that include pizza, ice cream cake, party room, and parks passes. H2Oooohh! is also available to rent the entire facility for private parties.
The water park includes a cafe. Dining options at the resort include Split Rock Grill and Lake View Tavern, two full-service restaurants. There are also two lounges, the Thirsty Moose Saloon and the the Rock Lounge.
The water park is open year-round. It offers a 7-day schedule starting in late June and continuing through July and August, as well as certain other peak-season dates. H2Oooohh! closes on some weekdays during the slower seasons. (The hotel is open every day.)
The resort is located in Lake Harmony in the Pocono Mountains, Pennsylvania. The address is 100 Moseywood Road, Lake Harmony, PA 18624.
From Philadelphia: Northeast Extension of the PA Turnpike (I476) to Exit 95. Left onto Rt. 940E and follow signs to Split Rock Resort.
From Trenton, NJ: Rt. 31N to I78W to Rt. 33N to I80W to PA Exit 284. Right onto Rt. 115, then left onto Rt. 940W and follow signs to Split Rock Resort.
From NYC, Long Island, & Northern NJ: GWB to I80W to PA Exit 284. Right onto Rt. 115, then left onto Rt. 940W, and follow signs to Split Rock Resort.
Nearby airports: Wilkes-Barre and Lehigh Valley.
The Poconos have a number of indoor water park resorts, including:
  Admission Policy  
  What's to Eat?  
  When Is It Open and Where Is It Located?  
  Nearby Water Parks  
Aquatopia- Indoor water park at Camelback Lodge 
Great Wolf Lodge Pocono Mountains- Indoor water park resort
Camelbeach- Outdoor water park at Camelback Mountain
Kalahari Pocono Mountains
