Saint Petersburg Is Great Cruise Destination in Northern Europe and Baltic
Travelers have two cruise options for visiting St. Petersburg. They can either take a northern European cruise of the Baltic Sea, or they can take a Russian Waterways cruise between St. Petersburg and Moscow. Peter the Great founded the city in 1703 as the capital of his Russian empire, and over 300 years later the city still attracts visitors from around the world.
There are so many sites to see in St. Petersburg that cruises usually overnight for two or three nights. The city is wonderful for walking, and the long summer days are delightful. Fall is a good time to visit the city since the crowds have all gone home.
This photo gallery is a compendium of some of the St. Petersburg sights from all around the city. The city is flat, and perfect for walking. Peter the Great's capital is also a fascinating mix of opulent palaces, canals, museums, and history.
I loved seeing all these wonderful old bridges while strolling the streets of St. Petersburg.
The Lion Bridge is one of many beautiful canal bridges in St. Petersburg. This one was within easy walking distance of our hotel, the Hotel Ambassador.
The Church on Spilled Blood in Saint Petersburg is arguably the most-photographed site in the city.
The Church on Spilled Blood was built in the late 19th century on the assassination site of Tsar Alexander II, who was killed by a terrorist's bomb. The church's fascinating, colorful appearance is the result of the numerous materials used in its construction. Much like the Sagrada Familia in Barcelona, the church is a challenge to the visual senses--there is so much to see. For example, the bell tower is covered in 144 mosaic coats of arms, representing the regions and towns of Russia. The five domes are covered in jeweler's enamel, and glazed ceramic tiles cover much of the exterior.
The intricate design and detail of the church are an interesting contrast to the simplicity of most of the rest of the buildings in St. Petersburg.
For those who have been to Moscow, the resemblance to St. Basil's Cathedral in Red Square is no coincidence. The architect, Alfred Parland, was trying to copy St. Basil's, and most would say the two churches do look much alike, although their environs are certainly different.
The Church on Spilled Blood in Saint Petersburg, Russia is no longer an active church; it is now a museum.
Gostiny Dvor has been St. Petersburg's main shopping area for over 200 years. The building is not one big department store, but houses hundreds of small shops.
During Soviet times, the Kazan Cathedral was transformed into a Museum of Atheism. It was returned to religious use in 1999.
The Our Lady of Kazan Cathedral is distinguished by its curved colonnade of numerous huge columns. The church was built following the war with Napoleon in 1812. Russian Field Marshal Mikhail Kutuzov, who was immortalized in Tolstoy's War and Peace, is buried here. A statue of General Kutuzov and Mikhail Barclay de Tolly have stood in front of the church since 1837.
The Ice Bar in St. Petersburg is much like the Absolut Ice Bar in Stockholm--a great place for a photo and a drink. The Ice Bar in St. Petersburg is found on a small street right behind the Kazan Cathedral.
 Like the Ice Bars in Stockholm and London, visitors don silvery coats, gloves, and boots to go inside, and the drinks are served in glasses formed of ice.
Newlyweds often tour St. Petersburg immediately after their wedding, stopping to make photos with friends in front of famous sites in St. Petersburg.
I am glad that this couple used a limousine to do their touring! (Note the champagne bottle next to the limousine door.)
St. Petersburg's Grand Hotel Europe and its restaurants have long been famous as a meeting place for the rich and famous, diplomats, and artists.
The Rusca Portico, designed by Luigi Rusca, was originally the entrance to a large arcade of shops next to Gostiny Dvor on Nevsky Prospect in St. Petersburg.
Singer Building was built for the Singer Sewing Machine Company.
The Cruiser Aurora fired a single shot from its bow gun on October 25, 1917, signaling the storming of the Winter Palace by the Bolsheviks.
The Cruiser Aurora entered service in 1903, and is most famous for its 1917 signaling shot. However, the Naval vessel was deliberately sunk by the Russian Army during the World War II siege of Leningrad (the Soviet name of St. Petersburg) to protect the ship from the possible invasion by the German army.
The Singer House on Nevsky Prospect in St. Petersburg was built in 1904 for the Singer Sewing Machine Company.
The two Rostral columns honor the Russian Naval fleet and were completed in the early 1800's. The name comes from the Latin word rostrum, meaning prow. The columns are decorated with the prows of numerous ships and were originally used as lighthouses. The Rostral columns provide a nice frame for the old Stock Exchange, which is now the Naval Museum.
The Rostral Columns are decorated with the prows of ships, and the figures on the base represent four of Russia's great rivers.
This watchtower stands in front of the former city hall of St. Petersburg. Equipment in the tower once sent messages between the Winter and Summer Palaces.
St. Peterburg's Naval Museum was modeled after a famous Greek temple. At one time, it was the Stock Exchange.
The Smolny Cathedral is part of the Smolny Convent complex in St. Petersburg. The Cathedral was designed by Rastrelli in 1748, and over 50,000 wooden piles were needed to secure the foundation in the marshy soil of St. Petersburg.
Tsarina Elizabeth planned the convent as a school for young noblewomen, but Catherine the Great did not like the design of the Cathedral and stopped funding in 1762. Nicholas I commissioned the completion of the complex in 1835, and the cathedral has great views of the city from its tower.
St. Petersburg is a wonderful town to explore on foot, but you will need to have a Russian Visa unless you are accompanied by a licensed guide.
The Rolling Stones entertained the crowds in Palace Square in St. Petersburg in the summer of 2007.
McDonald's Restaurants are everywhere, but how many use Cyrillic script on their umbrellas?
The Admiralty is decorated with dozens of sculptures and reliefs documenting the glories of the Russian Naval fleet of the 19th century.
The Apraksin Market in Saint Petersburg is filled with small shops selling liquor, cigarettes, clothing, and a little bit of everything else.
The Apraksin Market (Apraksin Dvor) is perfect for people watching, but keep your purse and camera close since it is a favorite of both shoppers and pickpockets.
Catherine the Great commissioned this statue of Peter the Great, and it is called the Bronze Horseman after the famous Pushkin poem.
The Bronze Horseman statue is in a small park along the palace embankment in St. Petersburg. It depicts Peter the Great on a rearing horse trampling a serpent, which is often symbolically used as a sign of treason. Many newlyweds find their way to the statue (especially on weekends), since having a wedding photo there is considered good luck.
The statue honoring Tsar Nicholas I was completed in 1859. The faces of the Tsar's wife and three children are carved into the base of the statue.
St. Petersburg is filled with canals, and many of the sights are accessible by water, so a canal tour is a great way to see some of the city.
I loved the design of this lovely bridal shop near the Sennaya Ploshchad (square).
St. Nicholas is the patron saint of sailors, and this cathedral honors him.
After visiting St. Petersburg, I guessed that this icon on the bridge of the M/S Rossia was St. Nicholas, and I was right!
This gallery connects the Large Hermitage to the Theatre.
The Alexander Column commemorates Tsar Alexander I and his role in Russia's victory over Napoleon in the War of 1812. It is the largest free-standing monument in the world. The Alexander Column is made of red granite and stands 154 feet (47 meters) high.
Palace Square has been the setting for military parades, massacres, demonstrations, and rock concerts.
Palace Square in St. Petersburg is one of the world's largest public squares. It is almost twice as large as Red Square in Moscow.
This spacious room was our hotel room in St. Petersburg. We stayed four nights in St. Petersburg as part of our Grand Circle Russian Waterways cruise tour.
We loved staying in St. Petersburg and walking around the city. St. Petersburg is very flat, with wonderful canals and lots of interesting sites to see while strolling the numerous fascinating streets. The Ambassador Hotel is located across from Yusupov Park in the western part of St. Petersburg called Sennaya Ploshchad.
Grand Circle uses the Ambassador Hotel in St. Petersburg for its Russian Waterways cruise passengers. The hotel is in the downtown area near from Yusupov Park.
While in Saint Petersburg, Grand Circle uses a hotel to house its passengers since the river cruise port is a 30 minute to one hour ride from the downtown area. The Ambassador Hotel was in a good location in the western part of St. Petersburg, just a couple of blocks from St. Nicholas Cathedral.
Grand Circle passengers spend either three or four nights in St. Petersburg on this cruise tour. A buffet breakfast and two dinners are held in this private dining room on top of the hotel. The restaurant provides an excellent view of downtown St. Petersburg, including St. Isaac's Cathedral.
While on one of our included tours with the Grand Circle Small Ship Cruises' Russian Waterways cruise tour, we enjoyed lunch at the Academia Restaurant.
The magnificence of Peterhof, Peter the Great's summer imperial palace on the Gulf of Finland on Baltic Sea, is somewhat reminiscent of Versailles near Paris. Peter the Great visited Versailles in 1717 and he returned to Saint Petersburg with many ideas for enhancing his own summer palace and grounds, which were already under construction. Peterhof Palace sits in 1500-acres of formal gardens and park 18 miles from Saint Petersburg, and its 173 glorious fountains are fed by underground springs that are 14 miles away. Like the Catherine summer palace, Peterhof was almost in ruins following World War II. However, many photos of Peterhof allowed reconstruction of the magnificent palace and park.Most visitors to Peterhof come with an organized group or guide for a half-day tour, riding a hydrofoil for 45 minutes along the Neva River one way and a tour bus the other. As shown in these photos, Peterhof and its park are well worth the visit.
The Peter and Paul Fortress was the first structure Peter the Great built in Saint Petersburg, Russia in 1703. Today it marks the founding of the city, but the fortress was used as a political prison for centuries and the cathedral holds the tombs of the Romanov Tsars. The Peter and Paul Fortress sits on the northern banks of the Neva River, and the tall golden spire of Peter and Paul Cathedral marks the location. This spire was the tallest point in Saint Petersburg until a television tower was built in the mid-1960s.Cruise ships sailing northern Europe and the Baltic Sea include shore excursions to the Peter and Paul Cathedral, as do river cruise tours sailing between Saint Petersburg and  Moscow. I found the Baroque architecture of the cathedral fascinating, especially since it is so different than most Russian Orthodox churches.
The Hermitage (officially the State Hermitage Museum) is one of the most famous museums in the world. Spread over several buildings lining the Neva River in St. Petersburg, this museum is way too large to see in just a few hours. Most cruisers visit with a tour group on a half-day excursion and can see many of the art pieces and gaze at the beautiful decor.The Hermitage was once the palace of Catherine the Great, who used it as a private place of retreat and solitude, or a Hermitage. Tours enter through the Winter Palace on the ground floor and walk up the magnificent Jordan Staircase to the first floor. The rooms on the first floor are breathtaking, with many of the rooms restored as they were during Imperial times. The second floor is not architecturally as dramatic as the first floor, but has many important French paintings. Be sure to glance through the windows on the second floor for a great view of the Palace Square and the Alexander Column.
St. Isaac's Cathedral in St. Petersburg is one of the world's largest domed cathedrals, holding 14,000 people. This massive church and its golden dome can be seen from many locations in St. Petersburg.St. Isaac's was commissioned in 1818 by Tsar Alexander I to celebrate the victory over Napoleon, and the French architect Auguste de Montferrand was the designer. St. Isaac's took 40 years to build, and Montferrand died the year it opened. It sits on a marshy bank of the Neva River, and thousands of huge wooden pilings were sunk into the mud to support the church. The exterior of St. Isaac's is of Renaissance and Baroque design, and the interior is spectacular because of the mosaics and many precious stones and minerals used. The golden dome is covered with 220 pounds of gold. During the Soviet era, the Orthodox Church was closed to worshipers and became a museum of atheism. Fortunately, many of the wonderful 19th century works of art were retained and decorate today's St. Isaac's.
Tsarina Elizabeth commissioned Rastrelli to build a grand summer palace about 15 miles from St. Petersburg. The Catherine Palace, named for Elizabeth's mother Catherine I, was the result of his work. The Catherine Palace, also known as Tsarskoe Selo or Tsar's Village, was completed in the mid-1700's, but has been significantly changed over the centuries, first by Catherine the Great (Catherine II), and then after World War II. The palace was ransacked and almost destroyed by the Germans, but photos have allowed the magnificent reconstruction.The Amber Room is the most famous of the palace rooms, and a recreation of the original room was completed in 2003. The Great Hall, filled with mirrors and gilded carvings, is a perfect remembrance of what life was like for the Russian aristocracy of the 18th and 19th centuries. These photos, accompanied by an article on a day at Catherine Palace, help show why this palace is one of the most popular cruise ship shore excursions in St. Petersburg.
The Yusupov Palace in St. Petersburg provides an interesting look at the lives of the aristocracy of the 19th and early 20th century. The palace has exotic rooms such as the Moorish room with its beautiful mosaics and a pool room with a secret compartment under the table. The palace has a wonderful Rococo theater, which seats 180 and is still used for concerts. However, Yusupov Palace is best known as the site of the murder of Grigory Rasputin, the "mad monk" who was killed in December 1916 by Prince Yusupov and others loyal to Nicholas II. They believed Rasputin had a mystical hold over the Empress Alexandra that was damaging the imperial family.Rasputin was not easy to kill. Prince Yusupov first tried poison, then shot him. He escaped, was pursued by the assassins and shot three more times before being battered and thrown in the Neva River. Rasputin's body was found in the freezing river three days later and an autopsy showed he had drowned. Perhaps he did have mystical powers!
Cruising the Russian waterways between St. Petersburg and Moscow is a great way to see some of the Russian countryside. Many ocean-going cruise ships visit St. Petersburg on cruises to northern Europe and the Baltics, but for those seeking an in-depth experience in just one country, a Russian Waterways cruise is a marvelous way to discover the culture, history, and people of Russia. Since Russia's capital is landlocked, a waterways cruise is the only way to get to Moscow on a ship.
I sailed on the Grand Circle Small Ship Cruises' M/S Rossia, and loved the ship and itinerary. The small ship sailed the 900 miles separating St. Petersburg and Moscow in seven days, and we passed through 21 locks as the Captain navigated the rivers, lakes, canals of the Volga-Baltic Waterways.
More Photo Galleries and Information on Russian Waterways Ports of Call
Photo Galleries of the Grand Circle Small Ship Cruises' M/S Rossia
The River Terminal is northwest of St. Petersburg on the Neva River, a drive of about 30 minutes to an hour from downtown (depending on traffic).
The M/S Rossia rendezvoused with her twin sister ship, the M/S Tikhi Don in the White Lake of the Volga-Baltic Waterway.
We all speculated about what cargo was in this large box. Imagine our surprise when we learned it was a box of Matryoshka dolls, ready for painting.
The Krokhino Church sits on the edge of the White Lake on the Sheksna River of the Volga-Baltic Waterway. It was built in the 15th century, and it was flooded when the Soviets built the hydroelectric stations along the river in the 20th century.
The somewhat dilapidated Church of the Resurrection is the most prominent site in Goritsy, Russia.
Most of the ships on the Volga-Baltic Waterway were either cargo or passenger ships. However, this military ship was also patrolling the river.
We saw several tourist camps and campgrounds along the river, especially as we neared Moscow.
The contrast between the belfry of this flooded 17th century church and the modern satellite dish is interesting.
This gigantic dish looked very out-of-place along the Volga River, especially since most of what we saw was countryside, villages, and churches.
Moving through locks is always fascinating, and this one has a vertical gate that drops down and lets the ships pass over it.
Fishing is certainly a world-wide activity, as I see determined fishermen everywhere I cruise.
Kizhi Island is one of over 1650 islands in Lake Onega, the second largest lake in Europe, which is in the Karelia Republic. Kizhi is one of the largest outdoor museums in Russia, and focuses on peasant life and customs in the Russian north and includes 83 wooden structures, most of which date back to the 18th or 19th century.
Kizhi Island is often included as a port of call on Russian Waterways cruises between St. Petersburg and Moscow. The museum has been a UNESCO World Heritage site since 1990. The open air exhibit includes churches, homes, and other old wooden buildings that were either built on Kizhi or have been collected from around northern Russia and preserved on Kizhi.
We visited Kizhi for a day from the Grand Circle M/S Rossia and loved walking around and learning about this fascinating part of the world. It was a rainy day, but the trails were wooden or paved, so we just wore our rain suits and carried umbrellas.  
Svirstroy is a small village of about 1000 residents located on the Svir River about 150 miles east of St. Petersburg. The Svir connects the two largest lakes in Europe--Lake Ladoga and Lake Onega.
Svirstroy is sometimes a port of call on Russian Waterways cruises between St. Petersburg and Moscow. The highlight of our day in Svirstroy was a walk through the small village and a visit to the home of Julia, a retired widow who served us tea and piroshkis while we queried her about life in Svirstroy over the past 75 years.
We also loved the shopping in Svistroy, which was much cheaper than in the cities of Moscow and St. Petersburg. The residents of this small village have built wooden kiosk-sized shops and sell all sorts of Russian handicrafts and artwork. Needless to say, everyone loaded up on souvenirs and gifts. Fortunately, it was a short walk back to the river ship!
Yaroslavl, Russia is a town of about 600,000 residents at the junction of the Volga and Kotorosl Rivers. Yaroslavl is almost 1000 years old, having been founded in the year 1010 by Kiev Prince Yaroslav the Wise.
Yaroslavl is home to many churches, most dating back to the 16th or 17th century. We went inside the Church of St. Elijah the Prophet and were mesmerized by the magnificent icons and frescoes of the church. A small men's choir serenaded us, which added to the atmosphere. Next, we rode the short distance to the Spassky Monastery, which is one of the oldest complexes in Yaroslavl. We gazed up at the Spaso-Preoprazhensky Cathedral (Savior Transfiguration Cathedral) and were entertained with a bell concert outside the cathedral.
Finally, we enjoyed watching a wedding motorcade of gaily decorated cars zip through the streets.
One of the things I love about cruises is also one of the things I hate about cruises--this marvelous vacation option often allows travelers to see many countries on just one trip, providing a sample of things to see and do on a return visit. The most popular river cruises--those through central Europe--include stopovers at amazing ports, but usually in several different countries. Some river cruises (like those in France, Portugal, and China) focus on just one country, enabling passengers to immerse themselves in the culture, language, history, and sites of one country, but still visiting many different ports of call.
Travelers seeking an in-depth vacation in another fascinating, important country should plan a river cruise in Russia. I sailed on the Viking Truvor with Viking River Cruises on "Waterways of the Tsars", a 13-day river cruise tour from St. Petersburg to Moscow. This voyage included three nights in St. Petersburg; six days sailing of Russian rivers, lakes, and waterways with stopovers in Mandrogy, Kizhi, Goritzy, Yaroslavl, and Uglich; and ending with three nights docked in Moscow. The cruise tour included most all shore excursions and wine, beer, or soft drinks at lunch and dinner. I came away from Russia with a new appreciation for its people and its history, and realized that much of what we know about this huge country from the daily news might not necessarily be the whole story.
The next 32 pages provide a comprehensive story of our time in Russia. Wishing to avoid the summer crowds seen in northern Europe, a friend and I sailed on the next-to-last voyage of the year on the Viking Truvor, which boarded in St. Petersburg on September 26 and debarked in Moscow on October 8. The number of visitors in St. Petersburg was significantly less than you will find in the high season, and the weather was cool, but not miserably cold. Although long summer days in northern Europe where the sun sets after midnight are a big attraction to visitors, those who enjoy less crowds and don't mind taking along a coat should consider a September sailing in Russia.
Join me on an in-depth look at Russia with Viking River Cruises.
St. Petersburg is one of the world's great cities to visit, with much interesting history, but also many artistic venues. Peter the Great founded the city in 1703 during the Great Northern War with Sweden, which is not the same as the War of Northern Aggression in the USA.
Geographically, the city is very important to Russia, since it is the country's only port on the Baltic Sea. Peter the Great was enamored with Europe, especially France, so the city has a European look, especially with its 200 miles of canals. Many of the buildings are painted in pastel colors since the city has only about 50 days a year where the sun shines. Citizens of St. Petersburg claim that their city weather is 9 months of expectation and 3 months of disappointment. The weather is certainly very changeable since the north winds can plow into the city and bring major storms.
We arrived in St. Petersburg in the late afternoon and were met by a Viking River Cruises' representative at the airport. The transfer to the Viking Truvor was uneventful, and we got settled into our cabin, had a quiet dinner, attended a welcome briefing for those who arrived late in the afternoon. The river ship has three onboard guides/tour leaders, all from St. Petersburg. They all speak excellent English and were our licensed guides in St. Petersburg and act as tour leaders/escorts/translators on the rest of the trip. All the guides are men, and all are middle-aged. Therefore, they remember both the Soviet Union prior to 1991 and Russia as a republic today. Interesting group, all who changed jobs in mid-career. They started out as engineers, but are tour guides today, a decision they apparently made themselves, something the generation of their parents were unable to do.
The next three days in St. Petersburg were busy ones.
We hit the ground running the next morning. Twenty-three of us on the Viking Truvor had signed up for the "privileged access" optional tour of the Hermitage Museum. This meant we left the ship at 9 am and arrived at the Hermitage by 9:40. The museum doesn't open to the public until 10:30, so we were well ahead of other visitors. Our guide Natalya was very knowledgeable. She had attended William & Mary College in the USA and has a doctorate in linguistics. She teaches at the St. Petersburg State University.
The rest of our fellow cruise travelers did the included morning tour of the Hermitage, followed by lunch on the ship and free time in the afternoon. The Viking Truvor was docked fairly close to a subway stop, and the onboard staff was very helpful in providing guidance on navigating the city on your own.
The Hermitage is now a great museum, but this building was once the winter palace of the tsars. It was built by Catherine I, the wife of Peter the Great. The style of the Hermitage is Russian baroque, and many experts consider it once of the world's best examples of this style.
The Hermitage Museum was much quieter than it can be in the summer. Coming in late September  turned out to be a wise choice. Our smallish group could easily move throughout the many interconnected buildings. This is one place that would be easy to get lost in--the Winter Palace (largest of the buildings) has 117 staircases, 1057 rooms, and is 328,000 square feet. Its exhibition rooms house 3 million exhibits. It's nice to have a guide to help sort it all out. One change since my last visit--they moved the impressionists' paintings into a new space, which was much more spacious than before.  Even though I'm not an art expert, it's mind-boggling to see so many famous artists' works in one place.
After visiting the main Hermitage complex and walking around in the Palace Square, we reboarded the bus to ride to the "storage" area of the Hermitage. The museum cannot display all the items in its possession in the main complex, so many items are stored offsite in a well-guarded warehouse area. It was Sunday, so none of the artwork restorers or other workers were there--it was just us, Natalya, and a local guide who spoke only Russian that Natalya translated. (we think he understood English, but was not comfortable speaking it). Before touring the complex, we had the same lunch served to the workers that day (or so we were told). It was Greek salad, borscht, chicken with rice, potato fingerlings, and a flaky pastry filled with jam. Julie and I both liked it, but a couple of people complained at our table that the chicken was dark meat. A minor complaint, and a mixture of white and dark chicken seemed more authentic for a Russian cafeteria lunch. The borscht had a beef broth base, shredded beets, and a small dollop of sour cream. We don't think it had any cabbage unless it was in the broth base. Still very good.
After our "light" lunch, we toured the Hermitage storage complex. Many of the exhibits were stored in huge glass cabinets that were on tracks and could be slid apart. We saw many religious icons, but Julie and I enjoyed the furniture and the royal carriages the most. Interesting tour, and the first time I've been to that facility.
All too soon it was about 4:30 and time to return to the Viking Truvor for a concert, dinner, and a night at the ballet.
Although it's great being able to unpack just once on a 13-day Russian river cruise vacation, the river ship docking area in St. Petersburg is at least 30 minutes to an hour (or more) ride from the central city. With traffic, it's even worse. The Viking River Cruises staff on the Viking Truvor seemed to know exactly how much time we needed to keep our tight schedule--factoring the day, time, and weather into the equation. We also saw horrendous traffic in Moscow, and the staff continued to show an uncanny ability to predict the drive times. I commend them on their excellent planning.
Since the Hermitage Museum storage facility was fairly close, we were back on the ship by about 5:00. The schedule for those on our extended tour didn't allow us much time to attend an onboard Mariinsky Theatre music concert in the Panorama Bar from 5 to 6, have a quick buffet dinner, and leave for the ballet at 6:45.  Four performers from the theatre performed an excellent selection of classical numbers. What a nice way to get in the mood for our night at the theater.
But, most of us from the privileged access tour seemed to suffer from the FOMO (fear of missing out) syndrome and were back on the bus at the scheduled time ready to ride to the Mikhailovsky Theatre to see the iconic Russian ballet Swan Lake.
The buses left for the theater promptly at 6:45 pm, driving back into town for the 7:30 performance, going against traffic most of the way. This was a different theater than the one mom and I went to several years ago--the seats in the auditorium were larger and padded,  versus narrow and wooden. Not surprisingly, the performance of Swan Lake was as excellent as I remembered from before. Most of us know that Russia is well-known for its ballet dancers, and these representatives were amazing.
Back to the Viking Truvor, they had a nice late evening snack for us, so we were eating soup and other "light" fare at about 11:30 pm. In bed by midnight or later--it was all a blur by then.  Our next day in St. Petersburg was another busy one--a half-day at the Catherine Palace followed by a half-day city tour.
The next day on the Viking Truvor was another busy day, and we were still jet-lagged, so the alarm woke us from a sound sleep. Our first tour was an 8:00 am included tour to Catherine Palace, the summer palace of Catherine I (Peter the Great's wife). He had built a palace on the shores of the gulf of Finland, but she thought it was too windy and cold, so she had her own palace built. Her daughter Elizabeth greatly expanded the Russian baroque palace. It's certainly very grand, with its blue, white, and gold exterior.
Located less than 25 miles from St. Petersburg, the palace was occupied by the Nazis in World War II and used as a barracks and offices for the bombardment of the city during the siege of Leningrad (St. Petersburg's name during the war). During the siege, the city was encircled and cut off from the rest of the world and bombarded for 872 days. Our guide told us that over 2 million people died during the siege That's a  huge number of deaths and amazing that the city held out without ever being invaded.
Before retreating, the Nazis burned most of the great palaces of Russia located near St. Petersburg, and the Russian government has been working since the late 1940's to restore them. Luckily, most of the artwork, chandeliers, furniture, and everything not attached or very heavy was moved to Siberia, so the Nazis didn't succeed in burning much but the structures. Russia had many photos and drawings of the palaces, so they are slowly being renovated. The living area at Catherine Palace has been mostly renovated, but the attached church has not. The famous Amber Room was redone in the early part of this century after the Russians gave up on ever finding the original amber, which they couldn't hide or move before the Nazis  arrived because of its weight.
We put on the required booties to cover our shoes and protect the gorgeous parquet floors, many of which use up to 16 different types of wood. The palace is very ornate, with many huge rooms done with lots of gold leaf. Too fancy for my taste, but impressive. The grounds are also lovely, with manicured gardens. It's an impressive place, and definitely a "must-see" in St. Petersburg.
After touring the inside of the Palace and exploring the grounds, we returned to the Viking Truvor for lunch and an afternoon tour of the central city of St. Petersburg.
After a delicious buffet lunch on the Viking Truvor, we re-boarded the buses and headed out again for a city tour from 1:45 to 7 pm. Most of the central city tour of St. Petersburg was on the bus, with frequent photo stops. The only place we toured inside was the Peter and Paul Cathedral and Fortress, which has the graves of all the past Czars of Russia and their families. Two of the last Romanov children, killed with their parents in 1917, have not been buried with Alexandra and Nicholas II Romanov (their parents), but our guide said they had been identified using DNA and were expected to be added to the family tomb in a few months. Even Anastasia's remains were definitely identified using DNA a few years ago, although I'm sure there are some who still think she survived the massacre of her family.
Viking River Cruises had an alternative city tour that was included in the basic fare. This tour was mostly walking (over 5 miles) in the city center, but did not include the Peter and Paul fortress, which is on the other side of the Neva River. Those who did that tour liked it, especially since the rain held out until almost the end of their walk. Their group rode the subway into the city, which was fun for those who hadn't done it.
Our group on the bus saw more and didn't get wet, but we had horrendous traffic on the way back to the Viking Truvor. However, we still arrived at 7 pm for dinner, followed by an optional Cossack folklore show.
After dinner on the Viking Truvor, Julie and I had signed up for a 9:15 pm to 10:45 pm Cossack Folkloric show, which was held in a temporary enclosure right on the pier. We were very happy not to get back on the bus. The ship provided blankets to help us keep warm.
The folkloric show was good, with live music and about 10 dancers (5 couples) and a few musicians. Lots of costume and music changes, so we managed to say awake. They had a 15 minute intermission where we all drank shots of vodka to rejuvenate and heat us up. This was not our only opportunity to drink shots of vodka, as we would see other times on this river cruise.
Another late night--after midnight when we got in bed. It takes many days to get over jet lag when coming to Russia from the USA!
The next morning I awoke and threw open the curtains to find the same view of the past three days. We had slept on the Viking Truvor for three nights and still hadn't moved! I'm glad we had lots of time in St. Petersburg to see so much of the city and surrounding areas, but was anxious to sail that evening and see some of the Russian countryside.
Julie and I had our umpteenth tour scheduled--this time an optional tour to Peterhof Palace, which was built by Peter the Great in 1714 during the Great Northern War. Peter had visited Versailles outside Paris, and he wanted his summer palace to rival it. I actually like the exterior of it better than the Catherine Palace because of its wonderful system of fountains and location on the Gulf of Finland. We left the ship at 8:30, so still had to get up early.
Peterhof is about 23 miles or so from St. Petersburg and sits on the southern shore of the Gulf of Finland on a huge track of land, all of which is either park or landscaped gardens and fountains. The expansive baroque building is very long like the Catherine Palace, but is yellow rather than blue. Most of the rooms are ornate with lots of gilding, but Peter's study looks much like a man's den would today (except no computer or high def TV). No photos are allowed in the palace and guests must wear the booties to protect the parquet floors. This palace was also destroyed by the Nazis during World War II, but much of it has been renovated, although lots more is still closed.
At 11 am each day during the summer (before October 1), the Great Cascade of fountains is turned on and the many gilded sculptures sparkle in the sun (when it is shining). Our group toured the palace with a guide and then had free time to explore on our own. Julie and I got a good walk in before rejoining the group at noon on the bus to ride back to the ship. We didn't have any traffic on the return ride, which was a nice surprise, and we were back in time for lunch.
The lunches have been very good, and we often get a Russian dish as a selection from the menu. We've especially enjoyed the fresh salads and soups. We actually had a relaxing lunch  since our afternoon tour of the Faberge Museum didn't start until 2:45.
The afternoon tour (our fourth optional tour along with the extended Hermitage tour, Peterhof Palace, and the Cossack dancers/musicians) was to the new Faberge Museum, which only opened in 2014. This museum is located in the old Shuvalov Palace in downtown St. Petersburg. This palace has been completely renovated and is almost as spectacular as the private museum, which is not funded by the government.
Russian billionaire Victor Vekselberg (one of the richest men in Russia) bought the 9 Faberge eggs and 180 other pieces for $100 million from the estate of Malcolm Forbes in 2004. He set up a private foundation to exhibit the eggs and to continue to bring other Russian artwork back to Russia. Only 43 of the 50 Faberge eggs made for Nicolas II and Alexandra between 1885 and 1917 survive today, most in the hands of private collectors. Those on this tour saw more Faberge eggs at the Kremlin Armory in Moscow, but the presentation there is not as good as this new museum since you can't view the eggs from all sides or get as close.
It took over a decade to plan, renovate, and set up the Faberge museum, and it's a beauty. The nine eggs are the centerpiece of the collection, which also includes beautiful silver serving pieces, jewelry, paintings, and "curiosities" that the Russian tsars loved. One of the loveliest eggs is the Lilies of the Valley Egg seen in the photo above. This egg was a gift from Tsar Nicholas II to his wife Alexandra in 1898. It is made of gold, ivory, enamel, and glass, with precious stones like diamonds, pearls, and rubies.
The entire exhibit is spread over several rooms, and they don't permit more than 15 people at a time in each room, which allows for easy viewing from all sides of a piece of art. The museum continues to expand, and already has over 4,000 works of decorative and fine arts.
We were especially impressed with the way the paintings were exhibited. The rooms with paintings were very dark, except each painting had its own spotlight with a frame around it that only allowed the painting to have light on it. The result was that each painting looked like a giant ipad or like it was back-lit. Spectacular presentation, and the guide assured us that the lights would not damage the paintings. There were a couple of giant urns in one of the rooms that had the same type of gorgeous lighting, and the painting or urn showed up so much better in a spotlight surrounded by darkness.
Leaving the Faberge museum, we rode back to the Viking Truvor, arriving about 6:30 pm (because of traffic).
Viking also offered an optional tour to a Kommunalka, one of the remnants of Soviet Russia where families came together to live/work. Some of these communes still remain, and tour participants get to enjoy tea, cakes, and conversation with the residents.
We quickly changed clothes and went to the Captain's party at 7 pm when we sailed away from St. Petersburg. They introduced all the major department heads, most of which we already knew. It was already dark when we sailed, but we could see the suburbs of the city as we sailed up the Neva River towards Lake Ladoga, Europe's largest lake.
After the cocktail party, we went to dinner and ate with four retired school teachers about our age. Fun evening, followed by time spent in the Sky Bar listening to music and watching some of the couples dance. One of the other women and I tried a shot (really a double shot) of the Russian Standard vodka, one of the most popular Russian vodkas. At $2.90, it was a great price, especially since diet cokes are $3.20 (except at meals, when they are free like wine/beer). I may learn to like sipping vodka. Probably good I was going home in a week or so.
At 10:15 pm, we went outside to see the ship pass by the famous Russian Oreshek Fortress at Shlisselburg, a town at the junction of the Neva River and Lake Ladoga. It is normally spotlighted in the evening, but for some weird reason it was not. We could see the silhouette/outline of the fortress on the shore of the junction of the lake and the river, but that was all, so we went to bed, knowing we didn't have to set an alarm the next morning.
Everyone slept in a little on our fifth day on the ship. It was a treat to open the curtains and see the countryside with its autumn colors starting to show.
The Viking Truvor entered Lake Ladoga about 10 pm on Tuesday night and crossed the lake to where the Svir River ran into it. Lake Ladoga is Europe's largest, covering over 7,000 square miles. By 4:30 am, the Viking Truvor was off the lake and on the Svir River, cruising towards our first port of call, Madrogy.
Starting about 4 am, we got into really rough water, and I woke up about 4:15 as we were tossed back and forth. The ship hugged the shoreline, so guess we were lucky that we didn't cross directly or it might have been worse.
I slept until about 8:30 and just went and ate a continental breakfast before going to the first of two lectures that morning at 10 am.
Tour guide Misha did the lecture on "Russian and Your Cruise", which highlighted the geography, climate, political structure, culture, crimes, freedoms, and other items of interest to visitors.
I found it very interesting and Misha addressed most of the misconceptions we all have of Russia. For example, he said that most visitors think Russia is covered with ice and snow and surrounded by KGB. This isn't true, except for parts of northern Siberia, where there is lots of snow, ice, and KGB. He was very entertaining and a little self-deprecating (made fun of Russia, but also very proud to be a citizen).
All of the topics were interesting to me. Russia certainly is bordered by many diverse countries, some of which are not so desirable like Iran and North Korea. Misha said (tongue in cheek) that Russians were very proud that their neighbor North Korea was so popular and in the news almost every day all over the world. Russia has open borders with all its former Soviet Union partners, much like the countries in the European have with each other.
The population of Russia is only 143 million--very low for the world's largest country. About 80 percent are Russian. Other large ethnic groups include the Tartars (Mongols) who conquered Russian 700 years ago. Misha joked that the Mongols still remember it; they are now assimilated but speak their own language. The country also has Inuits in Siberia, Ukrainians, and many other small groups. One problem Russia has always faced is that the Europeans don't think Russians are European, and the Asians don't think they are Asian. So . . .they have kind of "stood alone". The Russian joke is that Asians are crows, Europeans are peacocks, and Russians are turkeys.
Another tidbit is that Russians love President Putin, who has an 89 percent approval rating. (Wouldn't all American politicians salivate over that one!) Misha believes he could be elected forever, with two terms as president followed by a term "away" since their new constitution (done in 1991) doesn't allow more than two consecutive terms. Russia believes they copied the "best" parts of the USA and English governments in setting up their republic when the Soviet system failed. In 1991, the communist party was only 10 percent of the new parliament, but now it has grown to 20 percent since the majority parties have not delivered on their promises. Putin started out as an independent, but is in the United Russia party now. As in most countries, politics is a popular discussion topic in Russia.
I think many Americans would be surprised by the number of freedoms that Russians have that they didn't previously enjoy. For example, Misha said he could listen to one radio station in his car praising Putin as great, push another button, and hear how he was a devil. So, freedom of speech has certainly improved in the past 25 years. Russians are also free to travel, with the most popular destinations being those that don't require a visa like Egypt, Turkey, Thailand, and Israel. Many Russians don't have the funds or the political savvy to fill out the complex USA visa request form. (It's a quid pro quo form--if we have 50 questions, so do they; if they add one more, we add one more, etc.). Plus, many who fill out the form and pay the high fee are turned down for no reason, so give up even trying.
When I traveled to Egypt, I learned that Russia and Egypt had a deal about the Aswan Dam. Russia built the dam and in exchange, Russians can travel to Egypt and stay for much less than they would even in their home country. Misha said a week in Egypt (including air) was about $500 for Russians, versus about $1,500 to travel to the warm part of Russia on the Black Sea.
One other fact about Russia concerns religion. The communists shut down most of the churches and looted the icons and any other worthwhile items. Religion has returned in the past 25 years with a vengeance. Most citizens are Russian Orthodox, but the second biggest religion is Muslim. All other Christian churches are also in Russia, along with Jewish, Buddhist, etc. One woman rabbi passenger on the ship visited Russia right after the fall of the Soviet Union when there were no synagogues. While in St. Petersburg, she and her husband did a private tour of some of the Jewish synagogues, schools, etc. with a local rabbi and she came away very impressed with the changes.
Another big change in the past 25 years is the capitalist system now in place. Russians now have the right to have private property. In the new capitalist country--80 percent of businesses are privately owned; with only three industries completely owned by the government. These are aerospace (airplanes and outer space), all military ships and icebreakers, and nuclear power plants. Misha said that the nuclear plants had seven layers of security and that the western books and movies about nuclear materials being stolen in Russia was just fiction. Hope he is right.
He was very educational and anyone traveling to the country should try and learn something about the basics.
Our next lecture was on Russian Food and Souvenirs, presented by Alexye. He talked about famous Russian foods like borscht (beet soup), pelmini (small dumplings shaped like ears and filled with meat or other stuffing like Chinese dumplings), and sauerkraut with cranberries and baked chicken. We had a Russian dish or two each day on the ship. One memorable dish was a lamb soup with rice called Kharcho, although I have to admit the cookies were my favorite.
Russians love appetizers, especially when accompanied by vodka. However, one of Russia's most  popular drinks is Kvas, which is made from fermented rye. It is very low in alcohol and young people drink it in place of colas. During Soviet times, it was stored in yellow barrels and milk was in white barrels and then handed out to kids. Coca Cola and Pepsi now both sell their own Kvas in Russia to introduce young ones to their products.
Russian caviar from wild sturgeon is prohibitively expensive since the population of fish was almost wiped out. All caviar now comes from "farm-raised" caviar.
I thought it was interesting that many of the Russian desserts were modeled after similar ones in France. Guess it shouldn't have been surprising since the Tsars were so enamored of the French.
Alexye also discussed buying Russian souvenirs and the best places to buy them. Anything in a shop or retail store has a fixed price, but if buying in a kiosk or on the street from a vendor, it's okay to bargain, especially if you are buying multiple items. This makes sense since the shop workers usually aren't the owners and aren't authorized to sell at a price lower than what is marked (like in the USA). Street vendors are working independently and might bargain.
One word of caution is that you cannot take old icons out of Russia, so anyone who buys one will probably have it confiscated at the airport. Icon painting was a popular art in Russia prior to Soviet times. However, when religions were prohibited and many of the icons destroyed (or hidden), these painters had to find a new craft. Many of them turned to painting lacquer boxes. Four different schools of painting are located near Moscow, and knowledgeable lacquer box fans can distinguish them. Russian fairy tales were the first to be represented on the boxes (replacing religious themes), but now you can find landscapes and other pictures. Of course, since the early 1990's, icon painting has returned, so the lacquer box painters now incorporate religious themes. Those who love to paint can appreciate the patience, steady hand, and good eyes (and good microscope) required to paint with only one bristle on your brush!
I wasn't buying an icons, but appreciate the lecturer telling us the importance of buying a new icon (made in the last 25 years) in a church shop rather than a retail store or street vendor. Why? Icons sold in church shops are "100% blessed"!
Many of us think of Matryoshkas (nesting dolls) as the stereotypical Russian souvenir and representative of Russian culture. Julie and I saw some nesting dolls in a store with 19 different dolls nested! This type of handicraft has only been in Russia for about 100 years and the shape was copied from the island of Honshu in Japan. In addition to the traditional Russian woman, the nesting dolls feature USA presidents, Russian tsars and presidents, the Jackson 5 singing group, and almost every type of sports team imaginable (baseball, football, soccer).
After the two lectures, it was time for lunch and then docking in the Svir River town of Mandrogy (also spelled Mandrogi). This little town is on a narrow peninsula and features artists who specialize in making wooden products, pottery, jewelry, painting, crocheting, music instrument making, metal working, and many other handicrafts. Mandrogy was completely destroyed in World War II and even disappeared from maps. In 1996, an enterprising capitalist rebuilt the town with wooden buildings/houses as a place for Russian tourists (and now others) to stopover when cruising between St. Petersburg and Kizhi.
Most of us just explored Mandrogy on our own for the 3.5 hours we were there. However, the ship did have two optional excursions. The first was painting your own Matryoshka doll, which didn't interest me since I had done one before and it was embarrassingly bad. The second was the opportunity to visit a traditional Russian banya for a Nordic bathing experience. I'm not a spa fan, so decided to skip, but my adventurous friend Julie went and loved it.
Julie and I explored the town of Mandrogy for about an hour before her banya appointment. The shops were in old wooden buildings with very low doors and high stoops, so entering each building and each room was a challenge to not trip or bang your head. The crafts were amazing and we watched a jewelry maker work using a microscope to make her delicate wares and the musical instrument maker carving an instrument. We also saw a woman spinning wool and of course some painters. Very interesting. Also many Christmas ornaments, woolen shawls and scarves, lacquer boxes, fur items (many in our group bought fur hats) and other Russian folk art.
I walked with Julie to the bathhouse/sauna and left her with the group. There were six women in the group, and the sauna was extremely hot. After a while,  a man came in and poured water and eucalyptus to make steam. While they were steaming, he hit them with a bundle of birch tree branches (with leaves). Julie loved this part. He then took them to a small room next door where he poured a cold bucket of water over their heads. She said it was shocking, but exhilarating. They did this a couple of times and then served tea and cookies. Some in the group (including Julie) then jumped in the river for another thrill. Julie explained part of her temporary insanity by saying that one of the women in the group who jumped in was 80 and another 70. Both of these "seniors" went in the river, so she did too.
While Julie was experiencing the Russian/Nordic bath, I walked around the little town of Mandrogy  and stopped in at the Vodka Museum. The entry fee of 250 rubles (less than $5) included a tasting of four different vodkas--not a bad deal!
I had run into some fellow travelers from our ship also going, so we enjoyed the tasting together. The first vodka was "classic", the second "honey and pepper", the third "smooth", and the last one was "cloudberry". I liked the smooth one the best, although the cloudberry would be great for sipping since it was milder. The shop was filled with hundreds of different kinds of vodka. Never dreamed there were so many.
Most vodkas are made from grain, but a few are made from potatoes.  Vodka has been commercially distilled in Russia since the 9th century and was first called the national drink in the 14th century. One of the most familiar vodkas, Smirnoff, was produced by Russians who immigrated to France.
By the time I returned to the Viking Truvor, Julie was already back and had taken her shower. The ship sailed from Mandrogi about 4 pm and we went to a briefing on the optional tours in Moscow at 5 pm.
At 6:15, we had a "meet your neighbor" get together in the hallway outside our cabin. They  staff served sparkling wine and hors d'oeuvres, and the captain walked around and toasted with us. This impromptu party only started in 2015 and is only on the Viking Truvor. One of the guests suggested the get together when he and his wife learned the last evening on the cruise that their neighbors on the ship lived only about 3 miles away from them in the USA. This passenger suggested that they institute a way to get to know your ship neighbors in case they were also your home neighbors. It was fun since we have met many folks, but not necessarily those across the hall or next door.
At 6:45 we had the daily briefing, followed by dinner. With an early day the next morning in Kizhi, we went on to bed.
The next morning we awoke in Lake Onega--Europe's second largest lake with almost 4000 square miles. We had been in the largest lake in Europe just two days before. Lake Onega definitely looked like a glacial lake, with 1,650 islands left behind as the glaciers plowed the valley. Very scenic, and the trees were almost (not quite) peak, with lots of brilliant yellows, but also some green. Not many red trees in late September.
The Viking Truvor arrived at Kizhi Island in Lake Onega about 8:00 am and had a tour at 8:30. Don't feel bad if you've never heard of this place, even though it's a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Kizhi Island's claim to fame are its wooden churches and other buildings that date back to the 15th century. The largest church on the island is the large Transfiguration Church, with 22 domes. This church is the "summer church" since it's not heated. What makes it impressive is that no nails or other metal were used in the construction--just wood. In addition, no saws were used to cut the wood, only an ax. The 300 year old church hasn't been open in over 30 years and is under significant renovation now. Evidently several years ago the building was completely covered and then fumigated to kill the bugs in the wood. However, after fumigation, it started deteriorating even faster.
The second large church on Kizhi is the smaller "winter" church, which is heated. It is called the Intercession Church and only has nine domes. It is right next door to the "summer church" and still used, but has a sad history. In 1937, Soviet soldiers drug the two priests from the church and killed them right on the steps. Many of the icons were preserved and are still inside, which is open to the public.
Legend says that the two churches were built by one man who left no written drawings or plans. He just used his axe (not even a saw). When he completed the project, this unknown builder threw his axe in the lake when he finished the construction since there was not or would be any to match them.
Most of the whole island is part of the World Heritage Site, and there are other wooden buildings on the site, including the world's oldest all-wooden church (a tiny one with one dome) and a traditional house of the region that shows the low doors and that the family slept downstairs and had the animals in the attic upstairs (animals used a ramp to go outdoors). Sure makes you appreciate the southern part of the USA. Looked a little like something out of "Little House on the Prairie", but much colder and remote.
At least the rain held out until after we left Kizhi. We actually had a sailaway party outdoors at 10:30 am on the "sun deck" from the island where they served hot gluhwein and shots of vodka. The two Phillipino entertainers sang and played music, and we all got into the dancing a little.
After leaving Kizhi Island and having a fun sailaway outdoors on the sun deck, the rest of the day we spent on the Viking Truvor. We could be as busy or as lazy as we chose.
The ship had several planned activities to keep us occupied. First, the Executive Captain gave a nautical talk at 11:30 followed by a bridge tour. It's always fun to learn more about how things work on a ship.
Lunch was another good meal. We especially enjoyed the salads and the freshly made pasta. However, we also tried many of the Russian soups, which have been good in the cool weather. Of course, since I love all things Mexican, I tried the quesadilla and chili con carne one day. Both were good.
In the mid-afternoon, we had a Russian tea (complete with samovar for the tea). They had some pastries/cakes, but many of us tried the blinis (pancakes) with sour cream and jam. Very yummy.
I went to the late afternoon briefing on the Romanov dynasty, and their history was as convoluted as most royal families. Many different people, different relationships, and way too many murders. I had read Catherine the Great's biography a few years ago, so wasn't completely befuddled, but I'm sure some of the other attendees were.
We had the daily briefing by Catherine the cruise director. She is excellent, originally from Germany, but has been sailing in Russia with Viking for 9 years. Her nickname is Catherine the Great, and she is amazingly funny/witty.
Viking had the past cruiser's party before dinner. They served a shot of aquavit to celebrate the Norwegian heritage of the company, although their first river cruises were in Russia.
Dinner was another excellent meal. I had a salmon carpacchio and grilled salmon main course. Both were excellent. They also had reindeer on the menu, but I knew it wouldn't be as good as Ronnie's venison (and I love all things salmon).
The Viking Truvor had to pass through six locks during the night as we moved south from Lake Onega into the Volga-Baltic Waterway.  Fortunately, we slept right through it.
We sailed on the Volga-Baltic Waterway most of the morning before arriving at Kirillo at noon. It was nice to sleep in, but we also had another presentation on Russia's history from 1900 to 1985. This story covers the fall of the Czars, the creation of the Soviet Union, and the lead up to the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Interesting presentation, with some spins I'd never heard before from our Russian guide.
After lunch of another nice Russian soup (this one cabbage) and salad, along with a small helping of their delicious fresh pasta, we had a shore excursion from Goritzy to the monastery at Kirillo. The Viking Truvor had docked at the tiny village of Goritzy during an early lunch. As we walked to the buses for the eight mile ride to Kirillo, we had to walk through a number of shops selling the usual souvenirs--lacquer boxes, nesting dolls, etc. The best item to buy at Goritzy is fur, so a number of women bought fur hats, but I passed.
It was a short ride to the Kirillo-Belozersky Monastery. We had a local guide who didn't speak English well (but she understood it), along with our onboard guide Alexey, who translated for her. She told us the winters were much harsher in Kirillo than in St. Petersburg along the coast. When she said they were even worse than the nine months of expectations and three months of disappointment in St. Petersburg we realize this must be a popular Russian joke since we had already heard it a few times before.
The monastery was founded in 1397 by two monks, but it actually looks more like a fortress, with its thick walls and many ports for aiming arrows or guns at oncoming enemy soldiers. At one time, many pilgrims made the trek to Kirillo-Belozersky and made huge donations to support the monastery. Ivan the Terrible was a frequent visitor and helped the monastery to grow with his donations.
By the end of the 17th century, the complex consisted of two monasteries and eleven churches. At one time there were over one thousand monks. Today there are five. In 1764, Catherine the Great took the land and much of the property away from the Monastery and turned the main building into a prison. In 1924, the Bolsheviks closed the monastery. Surprisingly, they did not turn the facility into a gulag for political prisoners as they did many of the other church facilities.
The complex of buildings is impressive, but most visitors today come to see the many icons that were saved from the Bolsheviks. These are in a museum section under glass to protect them from the elements. Many Russians (and Greeks since they are also eastern orthodox) believe that icons are like the Gospel in paint and were used in ancient times to teach the illiterate.
Leaving the Kirillo-Belozersky Monastery, we next went to visit a nearby school where our local guide was a history teacher. The school had about 800 students and over 50 teachers. The school  had all grades except kindergarten in one building. It was fun to see the eager young faces and help them practice their English, which was much better than the handful of Russian words we had learned. Some of the students gave a musical performance, and we got a tour of the school and some of the classrooms. 
Back to the Viking Truvor river ship by 3:45, we had a Russian cooking class where we learned to make Russian dumplings called pelmeni. The executive chef chose two sous chefs from the onboard guests. The presentation was great fun, especially when he kept taking breaks to have them drink vodka with him. I quickly determined he was drinking water and they were drinking vodka since each had their own bottle. However, they manage to make the dumplings and then we tasted some made earlier in the galley. Very good.
I skipped the second Russian language lesson since I decided it was hopeless. At 6:45 we had the daily briefing with Catherine, followed by a Russian dinner.
The dinner was very good, with many Russian dishes. Our table tried several and shared. At 9:30 we had the vodka tasting in one of the lounges, always a popular event on Russian itineraries. Each table had several plates of food to accompany the vodka--vegetables, pickled herring, pickles, ham, sausage, and bread. We tasted six Russian vodkas, and the assistant maitre'd led the tasting. She taught us a new toast with each vodka, plus showed us different ways to hold and drink the shot. The four of us at our table just had our shot glasses filled half-way each time since we all had wine with dinner. The room got louder and louder after each round. We tried a standard vodka, a premium vodka, and flavored vodkas. All were interesting, but only the first could be bought outside of Russia. Fun time, and we weaved (just a little) on the short walk back to our cabin.
The good news was that we didn't have any planned activities (except breakfast) before a 9 am lecture, that was repeated at 10:15, and no shore excursions until we arrived in Yaroslavl at 3:15 pm.
The next day, we had no activities off the Viking Truvor until 3 pm--just lectures on Russian government and history and one on future Viking Cruises. I had heard that Viking River Cruises was coming to the Mississippi River in 2017, but had not heard that the company was also going to sail on the Amazon River in South America. With 62 ships and several more on order, the company continues to grow rapidly, which is great news for the traveling public.
Had a leisurely breakfast and lunch, and didn't arrive in Yaroslavl (pronounced Yaroslal--the v is silent) until about 3 pm. We had a nice tour of the city on a bus and on foot, visiting the important sites (mostly churches) in the old sector of this city of 600,000 residents. Old town Yaroslavl is a UNESCO World Heritage Site with 140 architectural monuments, many of which are 17th century churches.
Before Soviet times, Yaroslavl had about 54 places of worship operating. The Soviets destroyed over half of these, and at one time, only two held services. Today (after Peristroika), Yaroslavl has about 30 places of worship in the four main religions in Russia--Russian Orthodox, Islam, Jewish, and other Christian denominations). The importance of Yaroslavl's churches is reflected by the Russian government featuring a picture of the Church of Saint John the Baptist (which we didn't tour) on its 100 ruble (about $1.55) note.
Our first stop was at the old Governor's House, which is now the Museum of Fine Arts. We toured the house with one of the "daughters" of the governor dressed in a realistic costume from the 17th century. After touring the palace, we had a concert in the giant ballroom with a pianist, violin, and cello followed by 3 couples demonstrating dances from the era. Of course, after they danced, they found someone from our group to dance with. Very fun.
Our next stop was at the Yaroslavl market in the downtown area. We were surprised to see the chef from our ship passing out samples of local cheeses. Always fun to tour the markets everywhere we visit. Julie and I didn't buy anything, but many people bought spices and nuts.
Back on the bus, we rode a few blocks (good walkers could tour all the old town area on foot, but would have missed the narration from a local guide) to the Church of Elijah the Prophet (Russian Orthodox). This yellow brick church has five blue-green domes. I never realized that the "onion domes" (as we call them) are actually supposed to look like candles. I like that term better, and they do look more like candles than onions.  The Church of Elijah the Prophet was built in 1647 to 1650 by wealthy fur traders. In addition to the five domes, the church has a bell tower and a tent roof tower on top the side chapel. The church also has some lovely gardens.
The interior of the Church of Elijah the Prophet has beautifully preserved, vibrantly colored frescoes covering its walls. The frescoes were commissioned in 1680 and depict the life of Elijah the Prophet and domestic life in 17th century Russia. The most discussed fresco is one that shows farmers harvesting grain in a field. This type of activity had previously not been allowed in churches since the frescoes were supposed to only reflect religious topics. Having the peasants working showed that work was worthy. While we were in the church, services were ongoing (it was Saturday night and this church has services morning and night). Interesting to see a small part of the service--only male priests, but women singing in the choir.
Our last stop was at another church, the new Cathedral of Transfiguration, which was finished in time for Yaroslavl to celebrate its 1000th anniversary in 2010 (the city was founded in 1010).
One of the richest men in Russia donated over $100 million to build this new cathedral on the site of where one was destroyed by the Soviets. Since it's in the old district, UNESCO was not happy for a new structure to be added to the old town. They finally approved the church (it's in the old style), but wouldn't allow a bell tower, so the bells are on brackets that sit on the ground. I got the impression from our guide that it was lack of money as much as UNESCO's displeasure that prevented the building of the bell tower.
Before entering this church, we went into a small building next door for a two-song concert by four male singers. They sang a religious song and the "Song of the Volga Boatmen", which I think everyone probably recognizes. These singers were not monks like those in St. Petersburg, but they were also selling their own CDs. I'm not sure where they find these men with such unbelievably bass voices. They are able to reach low notes I've never heard!
After the very short concert, we went inside the new Cathedral of Transfiguration. Like the Church of Elijah the Prophet, they had a service ongoing, so we got to see it and be blessed by the priest who walked around with his incense burner. Some of the priests looked very young, so religion must be returning to Russia.
Before riding back to the Viking Truvor, we walked along the riverfront promenade to see an overview of a large park on the peninsula that lies between the two rivers of Yaroslavl--the Volga and the Kotorosl. This lovely park features a huge flower bed in the shape of a bear--the symbol of Yaroslavl--plus the current year. The flower bed is replanted each year with the new year.
It was about 6:45 (and already dark) by the time we got back to the ship. Amazing how much you can do in about 3 hours.
Another nice dinner (I had a Caesar salad and grilled perch and ice cream) before heading off to bed. Decided not to go to the Liar's Club game in the bar, although I'm sure Catherine the cruise director and the other liars would be hilarious.
The Viking Truvor sailed for Uhlich about 7 pm and sailed overnight, arriving in Uglich early the next morning.
We were off the Viking Truvor at 8:15 in Uglich, which is on the Volga River and our last stop before Mocow. We had three activities in Uglich--a home visit, a tour of the lovely old churches that sit in a park-like setting on the river near where we were docked, and about an hour of free time to shop in the souvenir market. When I opened the curtains to our balcony when we woke up, we were surprised to see something missing in the sky--clouds. The sun was shining (not overcast), and it was cooler than it's been--about 40--but it warmed up quickly with the sun.
They divided us into groups, and our group did the home visit first. Sixteen of us visited Tatiana, a middle-aged woman who used to work in a bakery, but retired 3 years ago. She and her husband, who works in the Uglich milk plant, have two grown sons and a daughter, along with two grandchildren. She didn't speak English, but we had a local guide, Olga, who translated for her. We took a local bus to our host's home. It was a stand-alone structure, smaller and older than homes in Georgia, but neat and tidy, with a private garden filled with black, rich, dirt all of us would envy along with flowers and vegetables. We also noticed a satellite dish on the side of the house.
We all sat at a large table in her living room and weren't too surprised to see we were served some heavy snacks (even though it was only 8:30 in the morning). Like all Russians, Tatiana started the visit with a toast of homemade "moonshine" vodka. The one she served had raspberries in it and was quite tasty for an early morning nip. We had rye bread, homemade pickles, homegrown buttered potatoes, and homegrown tomatoes to accompany the vodka, and then hot tea and some delicious, very light cake afterwards. Tatiana insisted we try a few shots of the vodka, but most of us made those after the first one to be mini-shots. We toasted to new friends and peace. Very nice, despite the hour.
Leaving Tatiana's, we reboarded the bus and rode back to downtown Uglich to visit the two gorgeous historic churches that sit on the Volga. The first was the Church on Spilled Blood of Prince Dmitry the Martyr. Prince Dmitry was the youngest son of Czar Ivan IV, who is better known as Ivan the Terrible), who died in 1584.
According to our guide, Ivan wasn't really that much more "terrible" than other rulers of the 16th century, although he did institute a reign of terror starting in 1560 after his wife Anastasia died. He earned the nickname "grozny", which actually means "awesome" in Russian, but has been incorrectly translated as "terrible". I can see why Ivan might be called terrible since he killed his oldest son (and heir) with a blow to head. The two men were fighting because Ivan thought his son's wife (his daughter-in-law) was dressed too risque for a pregnant woman and said something to his son. The two men started fighting, and the son died.
Back to Dmitry. Dmitry was epileptic, but his older brother Feodor was "enfeebled", and many thought Dmitry might someday rule Russia. However, Feodor was being manipulated by his brother-in-law, Boris Godunov. Eight year old Dmitry was visiting Uglich when he was found dead. Officially, his death was ruled an accident because they said he threw himself on his sword during a seizure. However, his neck was cut many times, which makes an accidental death seem very unlikely, doesn't it? (Experts seem to be split on this issue, so they are no help.) Dmitry's mother blamed Boris Godunov, and soldiers killed 15 of his men, including a Moscow official. Since the death was subsequently deemed accidental, Dmitry's mother was sent to a remote convent to be a nun. This story is depicted in the Church on Spilled Blood of Dmitry, which was built on he site where he died.
We also saw the remains of the Kremlin (fortress) of Uglich from the outside before going inside the Spaso-Preobrazhenskly Cathedral, where they were having Sunday morning services. (It is also known as the Transfiguration Cathedral.) Like Greek Orthodox churches, everyone stands for the services (except the old and/infirm who have a handful of chairs to sit on). Since services last 2.5-3 hours, it can get very long, but this "suffering" is part of the service.
Our tour ended at the shopping area, where we had plenty of time to shop and there were ATM machines nearby. Lunch back on the Viking Truvor was a terrific Russian buffet.
As we left Uglich, we had a sailaway party up on the top deck with hot chocolate and live music. The Viking Truvor passed through a large lock at Uglich as we moved south towards Moscow. Our first all-sun day continued the rest of the afternoon, so we were hopeful for our time in Moscow. It was a gorgeous day to be outside, and we all enjoyed seeing more of the Russian countryside along the Volga River.
While sailing on Russian waterways, we saw a few sunken churches such as the one in this photo. The Church of Kalyazin see in the photo above and the Krokhino Church are two of these. Both churches were flooded when the Soviets dammed up the Volga and other Russian rivers to make the Volga-Baltic Canal system.  If you look closely, a giant satellite dish is in the background of the photo. Quite a contrast to the ancient church, isn't it?
While sailing south on the Volga River, we had the last history talk on President Putin. More new information about him and his government, and definitely a different perspective. I loved hearing a Russian perspective on events where I had only heard the perspective of the western media. All topics were on the table, and we had some lively discussions.
Like in St. Petersburg, we would be very busy in Moscow, so we had the farewell dinner with four more nights on the ship . Really a nice dinner with excellent presentation. I think I haven't mentioned the nice amuse (tiny appetizer) that is served with each each dinner before the appetizer. This time, it was salmon caviar on top of a spoonful of mashed potatoes (how Russian!). Then, I had the smoked butterfish on the top of an apple and celery salad, a chicken-noodle type of soup, grilled salmon with vegetables and a Hollandaise sauce, and a marvelous chocolate dessert. Julie had the liver pate for appetizer and the beef tenderloin for her main course, and we split our main courses.
After dinner, we watched a preview of the onboard video that could be bought and provided on a thumb drive at the end of the trip. The videographer captured one or more photos of everyone, given the response of the crowd.
Soon it was time for bed. We didn't arrive arrive in Moscow until lunch, but have a very long tour of the city that doesn't get back to the ship until about 9:30 pm.
The next morning we awoke on the Moscow Canal still sailing towards Moscow. We had our daily briefing along with the disembarkaion information since we would be very busy in Moscow like we were in St. Petersburg.
After the briefing, the three tour guides had a question and answer session for about an hour. Many of the questions they couldn't answer because they didn't know, and many were about the future of Russia, which would be like asking us about who we thought was going to be elected in our next election. Some of the questions they skirted, and I don't think it was because they thought the ship was bugged or that there were KGB (now called FSB) agents onboard. I still found the discussion interesting and was surprised how some of our fellow guests had put together such complex questions.
We arrived at the "Port of Moscow" about noon and left the ship at 1:30 for our included bus tour of downtown Moscow. The city's traffic is supposedly the worst in the world, and I think we'd all agree. It took us an hour to get downtown from the port. The driving tour was a highlights view of the city, and we saw many sights from the bus that we would see later in the afternoon on foot. We first stopped near the Novodevichy Convent for a potty break. You had to walk down a couple of flights of steps, but the facility must have had about 15 toilets. (Viking is very good about providing lots of toilet breaks--at least every 2 hours).
Next, we drove to see the view of Moscow from Sparrow Hill, the highest point of the city. We could see Stalin's seven huge apartment/government buildings he had constructed in the 1930's. These seven tall buildings are very grand and look like the Empire State building in shape, but are much shorter and have large "wings" on either side. They are nicknamed Stalin's "Seven Sisters", and are a good example of Soviet architecture. They are spread around the city and at one time they had the red star of the USSR on the top and many other statues honoring Soviet leaders to remind people of their government.
Although all USSR citizens in the socialist state were considered "equal", some people were more equal than others (according to more than one guide). Those who were more equal (such as celebrities, friends/relatives of high-ranking politicians, and rich people) were provided large apartments in one of these seven large buildings of Stalin, while others were often in communal living quarters called Kommunalka. A family would share a large room (without any interior walls) and would also share a bathroom and kitchen with others in the commune. This sounds awful, but was better than nothing, and the price was zero since the government was providing.
Back on the bus, we rode to a Metro station to ride on Moscow's famous subway that carries 7 million people per day. It's a huge Metro system, with the first lines being built in 1932. What makes it interesting is the artwork included in the stations (especially the ones built in Soviet times). The stations are huge and elegant, with long escalators and art deco lights. The one where we boarded was a new station built in 2004. It had a large mural on one wall celebrating Russia's victory over Napoleon. We all crammed into one car and rode 4 stops, exiting at a station near Red Square with 76 large bronze statues honoring the Russian people. This is one of the older stations in the system and was used as a bomb shelter during World War II (the Great Patriotic War). Like much of the priceless artwork in St. Petersburg and Moscow, all the statues in the Metro stations were moved to Siberia during the war for protection.
Red Square looked much the same as it did when I visited 8 years before. However, since it was getting close to dark (sunset is about 6 pm in early October), the large GUM shopping mall was all lit up and very pretty. 
We had about an hour at Red Square before meeting up with the group to go to the Classical Folklore Concert that started at 7 pm. I walked around the Square, making sure to get a photo of famous St. Basil's Cathedral, and browsed in GUM for a bit. Like many other cathedrals in Russia, the Soviets confiscated St. Basil's in the 1920's and thought about destroying the historic church, but decided to turn it into a secular museum.
We had been given a box snack before leaving the ship and then had a late dinner when we returned, so we ate our snack while riding the short distance to the theater. The snack included a sandwich, water, apple, and a bag of crab-flavored Lay's potato chips, which tasted better than they sound, but I'd never buy them.
The Russian Folk Orchestra Moskva concert was a highlight for us all. Talented young musicians played a variety of woodwind, string, and percussion instruments like the balalaikas, domras, accordian, table harp, etc. Amazing music. We all loved it. They also had an opera singer who did 3 or 4 songs. The performance lasted about an hour and a half.
We got back to the Viking Truvor river ship about 9:30. Traffic was still horrible, but we survived. They had a full dinner (order from menu) when we returned. In bed by midnight. Two more full days in Moscow were ahead of us with lots to see and do.
Our second day in Moscow was a day for the Viking Truvor guests to either select one of the optional tours (extra cost) or to just explore the city on their own using the huge metro system, public bus, taxi or on foot. The Viking River Cruises' staff is quite knowledgeable about Moscow, and they will provide maps and/or directions to visit almost anywhere in the city.
The optional tours included a visit to the Old Tretyakov Gallery, with its Russian artwork and icons from the ages; a visit to the Cosmonaut Museum, where the history of space exploration is demonstrated (from a Russan perspective); Moscow by Night, a bus and river cruise tour of the old city center than ran from 9:30 pm to 12:30 am; a free shuttle bus that took guests into the city center for free time at 10 am and brought them back at 4 pm; and a tour of a Russian submarine that was commissioned in 1980 and decommissioned in 1998.
Many did the full day "on your own" bus since we had a taste of downtown Moscow on Monday, and several more did the half-day Tretyakov gallery tour and then just stayed downtown afterwards and either rode the bus or the Metro back to the ship. Our ship was just a few blocks away from the last stop on the dark green Metro line, so was fairly easy to find as long as you got on the subway going the right direction. Several just rode the subway both directions since it was a reasonable price.
Julie and I wanted to do something other than visit an art museum, and didn't feel like going back into the city, so we thought the submarine tour might be fun. This tour was only 3.5 hours, and we could see the submarine docked on the other side of the canal from our balcony on the Viking Truvor. Another added benefit--it only ran from 10 am to 1:30 pm, so we didn't have to get up too early.
Only 10 of us did the submarine tour--6 men and 4 women. We had a nice escort who translated the guide's Russian into English. The submarine served in the Russian Navy from 1980 to 2000 and had diesel engines, not nuclear, so could only stay below the surface running on batteries for less than a week. The submarine was a Tango-class and its name is the Novosibirsky Komsomolets. The ship never fired a torpedo except in practice. The tour was interesting and similar to those of other submarines I've been on (only smaller).
Before the Russians turned the submarine into a museum, they removed 70 percent of the equipment and material on the inside so that tourists could walk around. They also made some regular doors (rather than round hatches) for tours to walk through. The sub had a crew of 78 with about a dozen officers. Other interesting tidbits--only 2 toilets for the 78 men; only 1 shower per week with only salt water that was heated just a little; men could only brush their teeth with salt water; some of the officers had their own cabins, but the enlisted men had to sleep in the 28 beds available or in hammocks. Some of the men who worked in the torpedo room also slept there and had to call and ask someone to open the hatch to go use the toilet or to eat. The food on all submarines was the best in the Russian navy, and every man got a daily ration of caviar, chocolate, and red wine (for health purposes). 
After touring the submarine and checking out a retired vehicle that was called the ekranoplan, screen ship, or ground effect vehicle, we went inside a simulator to have a Disney-World-like experience on the ground effect vehicle that flew a maximum of 30 feet over the water (or land).
The screen ship was like a sophisticated hover craft, but could carry 180 soldiers with their supplies. When we did the simulator (complete with bouncing seats and a dizzying IMAX video), one of the guys in our group commented that the vehicles (the USSR only built five) would have come in handy at the Normandy landings. Unfortunately, the first screen ship was launched in 1989 and the program was discontinued with the break up of the USSR in 1991. Our guide said there was a rumor in Russia that Yeltsin had given the technology to President Clinton, but the USA didn't fund it either. The five screen ships were never used except in training exercises.
We were back on the ship by 1:00, and after lunch walked about 10 minutes to a shopping area at the nearest Metro station. The ship had maps, and it was an easy walk. There was a shopping mall, McDonalds, and large grocery store at the Metro, and Julie and I loved exploring the area, especially since we felt like we were with "regular Russian people". The grocery store had a wide variety of all sorts of items (much more than we thought Russians had), and the mall had shops appropriate for the middle class folks. These shops were different than GUM, which had all the designer names we see at upscale malls.
Although Moscow is the second most expensive city in the world, a big Mac at McDonalds was priced at about $2 and a regular hamburger was less than $1. Fun couple of hours, and then we had the rest of the afternoon to relax before dinner.
Another good dinner on the Viking Truvor, followed by our optional evening tour of Moscow. Since we knew it would be cold, we put on all our clothes and left the ship at 9:30, first riding back to Sparrow Hill for an overview look at Moscow at night. Most of the buildings were illuminated, and the city is beautiful. Next, we went to Red Square to see it at night. GUM Department Store was lit up and had huge spotlights on the Kremlin Wall, making its red brick walls gleem. Our last stop was on the Moscow River, where we boarded a small river boat for a 50-minute tour by water for a different look at the sights. We about froze since we sat outside so we could see better and take photos.
Left the boat about 11:30 pm and were back on the ship by midnight--still lots of traffic, but no snarls. In bed after a cup of hot chocolate, with a 7 am wake up call for our last full day in Moscow--a tour of the Armory and the Kremlin.
Our last full day in Russia was a memorable one. The Viking Truvor had an included tour in the morning that visited one of Moscow's most important sites, the Kremlin.  Many people think that the world's only Kremlin is in Moscow, but the term means "fortress" to Russians, so most old cities had a Kremlin. The Moscow Kremlin is triangular in shape, walled, and in the center of the city.  The first Moscow Kremlin was built in 1150 and was a wooden wall around the city.
This 3.5-hour included tour visited the highlights of the Kremlin, but not the Moscow Kremlin Armory Museum that houses the priceless treasures of the Tsars. The Viking Truvor had a special optional 5-hour tour that saw everything in the Kremlin the included tour saw, but also spent over an hour in the Armory, which is inside the walls of the Kremlin.
We opted for the Kremlin tour that also visited the Armory. After seeing the Faberge eggs at the Faberge Museum in St. Petersburg, we wanted to see the ones in the Armory. Unfortunately, no photos can be taken inside the Armory, but along with the Faberge eggs, it features the Crown Jewels of the Tsars, armor and weaponry, carriages, gifts to the Tsars from other countries, crowns and clothing of the Royal Family, and many items of gold, silver, and precious jewels. The State Armory has over 4,000 of these priceless items.
It's well worth the extra cost, and we needed more time to absorb all we were seeing.
Leaving the Armory Museum, our guide showed us the various churches inside the walls of the Kremlin.  These red brick walls are tall and connects 19 guard towers. One wall of the Kremlin faces Red Square, the second runs along the Moscow River, and the third faces a park.
The Cathedral of the Annunciation is just one of three major cathedrals inside the Moscow Kremlin.  This 15th-century Cathedral was the royal chapel of the Tsars, and its icons and interior are spectacular.
The 15th-century Assumption Cathedral was once the most important church in Russia, serving as the state and cultural center of the country for over 600 years. It is also called the Cathedral of the Dormition. This cathedral was the site of coronations and royal weddings.
The 16th-century Archangel Cathedral was rebuilt after Napoleon's troops destroyed the original, using it for firewood. This cathedral has amazing frescoes and the tombs of 46 princes and emperors who ruled Russia for over 300 years.
While walking around the Kremlin, we also saw the official residence of the Russian President, but President Putin maintains a primary home elsewhere in Moscow.
Our last stop inside the Kremlin was at the Ivan the Great Bell Tower, which was the tallest building in Moscow until the 19th century.
Two "must-see" items near the Bell Tower are the Tsar Bell and the Tsar Cannon.
With all the gold, gilt, and ornate interiors of the cathedrals and armory inside the walls of the Moscow Kremlin, it's interesting that two other items are on most visitor's "must-see" lists. The first is the Tsar Bell, which is the world's largest bell, but has never been rung. It weighs over 200 tons. The bell was destroyed in a fire during the early 18th century, but was re-cast in 1737. During this process, another fire broke out, and water was thrown on the bell. Since it was hot, it cracked and broke. The Tsar Bell is useless, but it's a nice tourist attraction.
The Tsar Cannon was cast in 1586 and weighs about 40 tons. The cannon has ornate decoration and is primarily a piece of art, although supposedly it actually works. Some say it was fired at least once, but modern-day cannon balls are too big for the Tsar Cannon. Like the Tsar Bell, it is primarily used for photo opportunities.
We returned to the Viking Truvor in time for lunch. The river ship had two optional tours in the afternoon. The first was a visit to the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts, which has one of the largest museums of European art in Russia.  The second optional afternoon tour was to the Jewish Museum, which uses modern technology to provide a look at Jewish life in Russia.
Julie and I decided to stay onboard, pack, and get ready to fly home early the next morning. We had a quiet drink in the Sky Bar before dinner and sadly said farewell to the excellent staff onboard the Viking Truvor and the new cruise friends we had met onboard. 
We awoke to a surprise our last day on the river ship--snow! We knew that it snowed in Russia in October, and were delighted to see some flurries as we boarded our bus for the airport. The snow meant we had to have our plane wings de-iced, but it was worth it to see Russian snow (even if it was just a little!). Perfect send off for our group of Viking River Cruise travelers.
Viking River Cruises does an exceptional job of providing an in-depth look at many of Russia's most important sites. This cruise tour included most of the hightlights of St. Petersburg and Moscow, but also allowed guests to see some of the small towns and countryside of western  Russia.  The superbly-organized tours reminded me of my trip to China with Viking. Everything ran on time and the guides were knowledgeable and helpful.
I would certainly recommend a Russian river cruise with Viking River Cruises to anyone who wants to see a diverse piece of this huge country.
As is common in the travel industry, the writer was provided with complimentary cruise accommodation for the purpose of review. While it has not influenced this review, About.com believes in full disclosure of all potential conflicts of interest. For more information, see our Ethics Policy.
The magnificence of Peterhof, Peter the Great's summer imperial palace on the Gulf of Finland on Baltic Sea, is somewhat reminiscent of Versailles near Paris. Peter the Great visited Versailles in 1717 and he returned to Saint Petersburg with many ideas for enhancing his own summer palace and grounds, which were already under construction. Peterhof Palace sits in 1500-acres of formal gardens and park 18 miles from Saint Petersburg, and its 173 glorious fountains are fed by underground springs that are 14 miles away. Like the Catherine summer palace, Peterhof was almost in ruins following World War II. However, many photos of Peterhof allowed reconstruction of the magnificent palace and park.Most visitors to Peterhof come with an organized group or guide for a half-day tour, riding a hydrofoil for 45 minutes along the Neva River one way and a tour bus the other. As shown in these photos, Peterhof and its park are well worth the visit.
Most visitors to Peterhof travel the 18 miles to the Grand Palace and Park with an organized group. The groups use a hydrofoil such as this one to zip down the Neva River to Peterhof's setting on the Gulf of Finland on the Baltic Sea. The hydrofoil trip takes about 30-45 minutes. Seeing the Peterhof Grand Palace, fountains, and park from the water is breathtaking.
The grounds of Peterhof are filled with statuary and fountains. 
Much of Peterhof was designed by Rastrelli, the architect of the Winter Palace (Hermitage Museum) in St. Petersburg, so the style is similar.
Walking up the staircase in Peterhof's Grand Palace brings thoughts to mind of the thousands of imperial guests and royals who also entered the same palace.
Every palace must have a throne room!
One of the many elaborate dining rooms in the Grand Palace at Peterhof.
 Can you imagine what this wall covering might cost today?
 Every grand palace must have a grand entry, and Peterhof certainly has its share of gold leaf.
These ceramic stoves were very popular in imperial Russia and are seen in many grand palaces such as Peterhof, the Catherine Palace, and even in Uglich.
The walls of this room are covered with paintings of famous Russians and friends and relatives of Peter the Great.
The Grand Palace at Peterhof is connected to the Gulf of Finland on the Baltic Sea by the Marine Canal.
A view from the Peterhof Grand Palace, looking down the Main Canal over the Grand Cascade to the Gulf of Finland
The Grand Cascade has 37 bronze sculptures, 64 fountains, and 142 water jets.
Peterhof's design is much like Catherine's Palace and the Winter Palace in St. Petersburg.
One of the 173 fountains at Peterhof, most of which are located in the Lower Park between the Grand Palace and the Gulf of Finland.
Peterhof Park features both traditional English and French formal gardens.
Fountains line the Marine Canal connecting the Peterhof Grand Palace to the Gulf of Finland.
Summer is short in northern Russia, and swimmers and sun bathers flock to the beaches and parks to enjoy the long sunny days.
This beach is near Peterhof Park and the hydrofoil dock.
St. Petersburg was never intended to be Russian at all. Rather, it was founded to exemplify Peter the Great's vision for Russia, which was "Western." Built on marshland with slave labor, Peter the Great, one of Russia's emperors, established St. Petersburg city as the new capital of Russia. You may see the city referred to as St. Petersburg, Saint Petersburg, Sankt-Peterburg, or Petersburg.
From 1914-1924, Petersburg was known as "Petrograd." Then the name became "Leningrad" and stayed that way until 1991 in honor of the Soviet leader Lenin. Some individuals who haven't kept up with their current events (for the past two decades) may still call St. Petersburg by one of its former names. But St. Petersburg is St. Petersburg now, just as it was in Peter the Great's time.
St. Petersburg is often called "Petersburg" or simply "Peter" for short.
St. Petersburg was built on the Neva River in Russia on the Baltic Sea. It has about 4 and a half million inhabitants. Due to the age and beauty of St. Peterburg's city center, it has been named a World Heritage Site by the UNESCO World Heritage site committee.
You can expect St. Petersburg to be warm and pleasant during high summer, which occurs in June and July. Temperatures begin cooling in late August. Winters, starting in November, can last until April. While cold, St. Petersburg is beautiful in the winter - the Neva freezes and snow falls predictably throughout most of the winter months. St. Petersburg weather, however, can be unpredictable, so check weather forecasts in advance of your trip.
St. Petersburg, Russia can be gotten to by train or plane from Moscow or other parts of Russia, and a ferry is available from Tallinn. While in St. Petersburg, it's possible to use the tram/trolley system or the St. Petersburg metro. Of course, really seeing St. Petersburg involves hoofing it.
What's not attractive about St. Petersburg, Russia? Whether you're catching a glimpse of the Church of the Spilt Blood over the St. Petersburg rooftops, visiting the Hermitage Museum, or strolling through the streets, you'll also get your fill of gorgeous, decorated bridges, monuments that are the stuff of legend, and the buildings that once housed Russia's nobility.
St. Petersburg is situated in such a way that visitors find day trips easy to take. Go to Vyborg, Catherine's Palace, Kizhi Island, or Peterhof.
St. Petersburg hotels range from the budget friendly to the luxurious. Shop around for the best hotel deals, which will be harder to come by during the tourist season. Also take into consideration the location of your hotel to make seeing the sights more convenient.
The Catherine Palace near St. Petersburg is one of the world's great royal residences. It was significantly damaged during World War II but has been restored. The most famous mystery related to the Catherine Palace is the fate of the famous Amber Room, which disappeared during the War. The room has been reconstructed and is a unique feature unlike any other room in any other palace.
Exploring St. Petersburg and the nearby Catherine Palace in Pushkin with a knowledgeable local guide is probably the best way to see the city. Guide Alla Ushakova is a very entertaining and enlightening young woman who has lived in St. Petersburg for about 12 years.
Alla and her driver meet their tours at the St. Petersburg pier where the ​Silversea Cruises' ship was docked. Guests do not need a Russian Visa to exit the ship if they are touring with a licensed guide. Alla emails a confirmation of the tour and that is sufficient for the immigration officials.
Explore a few of the amazing parts of Catherine Palace, about half of which has been reconstructed since the end of World War II. This may not sound like too much; however, 57 of the massive halls were totally destroyed during the war. Fortunately for all of us, many photos of the palace were in existence, which assisted in the reconstruction.
Catherine Palace (also called Tsarskoye Selo or the Tsar's Village) is located in the small town of Pushkin, about 17 miles south of St. Petersburg, Russia. The palace's ornate, baroque design is breathtaking, and its 740 -meter (2427 feet) length is massive. Like many St. Petersburg structures, the Catherine Palace is brightly painted. The exterior is a brilliant robin's egg blue, trimmed in white and gilded with over 200 pounds of gold.
Peter the Great presented the palace's estate to his wife Catherine in 1710, and it served as the imperial family's summer residence until the time of the last Tsar in 1917. During the reign of Peter's daughter, Empress Elizabeth, the size of the palace was significantly increased during the mid-1700's by the famous architect Bartolomeo Francesco Rastrelli, and it was Rastrelli who gave the palace its baroque style. The Baroque interior design of the palace was changed during the reign of Catherine the Great (Catherine II) to suit her more neo-Classical taste.
The northern wing of Catherine Palace near St. Petersburg, Russia is topped by the five golden domes of the Palace Chapel. Although over 200 pounds of gold were originally used to gild the exterior of the palace, today it is just gold paint.
Catherine Palace is laid out with all the doorways exactly the same distance from the exterior walls. Therefore, guests standing in a doorway could see for hundreds of feet and through many rooms. Since the palace has many mirrors and windows, the light makes this view even more impressive. This hallway looks much like the hallways at the Hermitage.
The Great Hall (also known as the Grand Ballroom) is Rastrelli's centerpiece room at the Catherine Palace near St. Petersburg, Russia. The Great Hall is almost 56 feet wide and over 154 feet long. The Great Hall is on the second floor and occupies the entire width of the palace. The two tiers of windows enhance the impression of grandness and size. The area between the windows is covered with gilded mirrors. The ceiling is elaborately painted, and the inlaid parquet floor magnificent. Each of the numerous gilded carvings that cover the walls is a masterpiece in itself.
When standing in the room, you can almost picture the regal party-goers of the 18th century enjoying music and this marvelous room.
The amber room is probably the most famous room in Catherine Palace, and it was used as a study. King Frederick William of Prussia gave Peter the Great the original inlaid amber panels after Peter admired them in a room in Frederick's palace. The 16-foot jigsaw-looking panels were constructed of over 100,000 perfectly fitted pieces of amber. The Nazis dismantled the amber panels and shipped them from Russia to Germany during World War II, and they have never been found. Much mystery surrounds the fate of the amber room panels, and many Russians believe that they still exist somewhere in Germany. Russian artists began recreating the amber panels using the old techniques in the early 1980's, and the room was opened to the public in 2003.
Empress Catherine II (Catherine the Great) did not like the Baroque style used in the Catherine Palace near St. Petersburg, Russia. She preferred a classical style, and the palace interiors created by Scottish architect Charles Cameron are remarkable for their exquisite beauty, the austerity of decoration, and selection of decorative materials. One of the rooms Cameron designed is the bedroom of Maria Fiodorovna, who was the wife of the Grand Duke Pavel Petrovich, the heir to the throne. In this room, Charles Cameron made use of his favored technique of recreating Pompeiian murals in three-dimensional forms. The room certainly has a Roman feel!
Charles Cameron used his extensive knowledge of ancient Roman art and decorative motifs in his design of the Green Dining Room at the Catherine Palace near St. Petersburg, Russia.
The Hermitage Pavilions sits a short distance away from Catherine Palace and is one of two garden pavilions on the grounds of the palace. The concept of the Hermitage Pavilion was to be a place of solitary abode or entertainment for the members of the royal family. Rastrelli's design made the Hermitage Pavilion much like a miniature palace.
One of the most interesting features of this place of respite was the use of mechanisms to raise tables already set with meals into the Central Hall of the upper floor. Guests would be amusing themselves and chatting when suddenly the floors would open and exquisite dishes appear to everyone's delight.
After touring the inside of Catherine's Palace and strolling through the gardens, Alla sometimes takes her guests for a late lunch at a typical St. Petersburg "fast food" restaurant--Teaspoon. This deli-type restaurant features all sorts of delicious blini sandwiches and cold meat salads, and it is usually filled with locals. 
The large building in this photo is St. Petersburg's largest department store--Gostiny Dvor. This popular two-story shopping center covers a whole city block. Gostiny Dvor was built between 1761 and 1785 and was one of the world's first shopping malls. Originally the store consisted of over 175 separate shops, but today it is just one large store.
Alla pointed our many fascinating sights such as this one that travelers might have missed just driving by on a bus. It was truly a memorable day in St. Petersburg and at Catherine's Palace. 
 Petersburg Photo Gallery -- 69 more photos of St. Petersburg
Peterhof Photo Gallery -- Peter the Great's Exquisite Summer Palace
A cruise to northern Europe and the Baltic Sea is justifiably on most cruise traveler's bucket list. Because of the northern location, cruise lines only schedule these voyages between May and September. It may be cold weather in northern Europe for much of the year, but the summer months are marvelous--filled with long sunny days and "white nights" where the sun lingers at the horizon before barely sinking out of sight.
The countries lining the Baltic and North Seas are expensive to visit independently, which makes a cruise even more attractive since the price of food and lodging is paid in dollars.
The ports of call on a Baltic cruise include stopovers at many capital cities, giving travelers the opportunity to see ports they've only dreamed about in just one cruise. In addition, some cruises like those on Princess Cruises include small ports that provide a look at a different side of a country.
The following were ports of call on a Royal Princess Baltic cruise in June 2014. I boarded in Copenhagen, but Princess also allows boarding in Warnemunde and St. Petersburg.
Like most cities, Copenhagen has a variety of things to see and do, even if you only have a day in port. Cruise ships dock in one of two terminals in Copenhagen--the Langeline Pier and the Ocean Quay Terminal. If embarking on a cruise in Copenhagen, be sure to check your cruise documents before heading to the ship. The Langeline Pier is nearer the city center and within walking distance of the famous Little Mermaid statue. Ocean Quay is further away from downtown, about four miles from the city center. The Royal Princess docked at Ocean Quay, and we took a taxi from our hotel near the city center out to the ship. It was a flat fee of 230 Danish krone in 2014.
With a day in Copenhagen, visitors often visit: Tivoli Gardens, one of the world's oldest  amusement parks; Stroget, a busy pedestrian street that links the Old City Hall Square with Tivoli Gardens; one or more of the palaces in the city; or Nyhavn, the old harbor that is lined with open air cafes, shops and historic buildings.
Those who are embarking or disembarking in Copenhagen will have more time to explore the city and surrounding area. One interesting place to visit outside the city is a drive along the Danish Riviera scenic coastal road with stops at three castles along the way -- Frederiksborg Slot, Fredensborg Slot, and Kronborg Slot. Each of these has its own charm, but Kronborg was particularly interesting since Shakespeare is said to have modeled Elsinore Castle after it.
Princess offers shore excursions for in-transit passenger and for those debarking in Copenhagen with late afternoon flights. These mostly half-day shore excursions include bus or walking tours of the city highlights, canal cruises, a visit to a fishing village near Copenhagen, tours of the castles, and a full-day tour to Kronborg and Frederiksborg castles.
Oslo is about 270 nautical miles from Copenhagen, so a large ship like the Royal Princess can sail this distance overnight. The city of Oslo sits at the end of the Oslofjord, and it takes cruise ships about four hours to sail the 60 miles from the entrance of the fjord into the city. Quiet, rolling hills flank both sides of the Oslofjord, so it's scenic, but not as dramatic as the fjords on the western coast of Norway near Bergen and Alesund.
Oslo is Scandinavia's oldest capital city and ships dock very near the city center right in front of Akerhus Fortress. It's only about a 10-minute walk along the harbor to the City Hall. Those who walk around the peninsula where Akerhus sits will reach another harbor. In the middle of this eastern harbor sits Oslo's Opera House, which looks like a giant iceberg.
Oslo is a favorite of many travelers because there is so much to see and do. Princess offered tours to many of the highlights, but some of these sites can be independently visited using public transportation. I love the outdoor sculptures in Vigeland Park, but seeing the Viking ships at the Viking Museum and the ships of the Norwegian explorers at the Fram and Kon Tiki museums are also memorable. The wood carvings outside the land side entrance of the Town Hall and its lobby are worth at least a quick look. World War II history buffs might want to check out the Norwegian Resistance Museum in Akerhus. And then there's the Royal Palace, the Holmenkollen Ski Jump, and the National Art Gallery. How's that for diversity?
This list of the top 10 things to see in Oslo should help those planning a visit.
Aarhus is about 283 miles south of Oslo, and the Royal Princess arrived there just after lunch after being at sea in the morning. A half-day was adequate to see the city center, cathedral, or the botanical garden north of town.
Ships dock at an industrial pier in Aarhus, and a shuttle bus provides transportation into town for those not taking a tour. The downtown area of this historic city can be explored on foot, which is what we chose to do.
Aarhus is the second largest city in Denmark. It has a population of 243,000. We did a walking tour of the city. It is a nice town, with an interesting church, theater, and old town Latin Quarter all near a large square. We also sought out the free Viking museum, which is in the basement of a bank. This ancient site dates back to the 11th century and the original Viking settlement. It was discovered in 1960 while workers were excavating for the bank building. The museum had some interesting artifacts, all left in the ground where they were found. It's a nice little spot and well worth going down a flight of stairs into the basement. And, it was free.
Aarhus has canals lined with cafes and shops, so it's a nice place to sit and have a drink if you get tired of exploring. Princess had two guided walking tours of Aarhus and a bus tour to an excavated Viking fortress and reconstructed farmhouse near the Danish town of Hobro.
Warnemunde is Germany's beach town, and it sits at the mouth of the Warnow River near Rostock, which is a major site of shipbuilding in Europe. Although Copenhagen was the port where most guests began their cruise, the Royal Princess also allowed passengers to embark or debark in Warnmunde. So, a few hundred people who either lived in Germany or who had been traveling there joined the ship or disembarked and boarded the train to go home or continue their travels.
Ships dock within easy walking distance of downtown and the beautiful sandy beach. The train station is between the pier and downtown, and many cruise passengers take a ship's tour into Berlin. The Royal Princess had six different Berlin tours, and all included six hours on the train (three hours each way between Warnemunde and Berlin). Since these tours last about 12 hours, they allow 6 hours in the city.
Those who had visited Berlin before or didn't want to spend six hours on a train took ship tours to Schwerin Castle and Rostock, the Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp, or Rostock and the Trotzenburg Micro-Brewery.
Since I had never been to Warnemunde, I spent a couple of hours exploring the small seaside town. The beach was surprisingly nice, with gorgeous sand, but the water was too cold in June for swimming. There's a lighthouse, sidewalk cafes and bars, and many cute cottages with lots of flowers outside.
Warnemunde to Tallinn is 544 nautical miles, so we had a welcome day at sea on the Royal Princess before arriving in Tallinn.
Tallinn is another port where ships dock within walking distance of the old town. Many visitors don't know much about this capital city of Estonia, and they are pleasantly surprised at its cleanliness, shops, and interesting historical sites. When I query people about Baltic cruises, many say Tallinn is their favorite port.
Princess Cruises had several shore excursions that included detailed tours of different sections of old town Tallinn. Other tours took participants on a drive to Rakevere Castle or Kadriorg Palace.
Many passengers chose to walk into town and tour on their own like we did. The narrow winding streets of Tallinn have fascinating shops, the museums are diverse, and the spacious town square is lined with cafes and bars. Those walking around the city should make a point to see both the Upper Town and Lower Town. The views of the old town from some of the viewpoints at the Upper Town are excellent. Some of the churches in Tallinn are topped with picturesque onion domes that are typical of the Russian Orthodox style. 
The opportunity to visit St. Petersburg is often a primary reason for booking a Baltic cruise. Since this historic Russian city has so many things to see, cruise ships usually stay overnight either one or two nights. The Royal Princess stayed two full days in St. Petersburg, and most  guests did organized shore excursions. Since guests could embark and debark in St. Petersburg, a few hundred Russians used this port for the start and end of their cruise.
Many USA and Canadian citizens are confused about whether or not they need a Visa to visit Russia. To buy most Visas, travelers must either go in person to the Embassy or Consulate for the country they plan to visit or send their passport along with the appropriate application and fees to a passport service. Currently (July 2014), USA and Canadian citizens do not need a Visa to go ashore from a cruise ship if they have proof that they are doing either a ship-sponsored shore excursion or an organized tour with a local company. Adequate proof is either a shore excursion ticket for a ship-sponsored shore excursion or a letter from the tour operator for an organized tour not purchased from the ship. USA and Canadian citizens cannot go ashore and explore on their own without a Visa, and the same applies to many other countries. It is imperative that those booking any cruise check to see if a separate Visa is required since policies sometimes change.
Large cruise ships like the Royal Princess dock outside the city and groups use buses to go on the tours. Because of the Visa restrictions, relatively few passengers go ashore on their own, so taxis are not readily available.
Like most of the guests on the Royal Princess, we filled our two days with one or more of the 16 tours offered by the ship. Many of the top sites to visit in St. Petersburg are widely spread either around the city or in the surrounding countryside. In addition, this may be a once-in-a-lifetime visit to a great city. Therefore, I recommend taking a tour to enable you to see as much as possible in the two or three days your ship is in port. For travelers like us who were maximizing their time ashore, the Royal Princess had two-day tours which were less expensive than buying multiple shorter tours. We left the ship not long after docking, returned for an hour in the late afternoon, left again for an evening tour, returning after midnight to sleep on the ship. We left the ship again early the next morning, returning not long before she sailed late that afternoon. It was an exhausting two days, but we saw most of St. Petersburg's top sites.
What are those top sites? Princess had 16 different tours--some half-day, some a full day, and some two-day. We couldn't decide which sites to omit, so we did the tour that saw all the top highlights on everyone's list. It was an expensive tour (over $500 per person), but was really five half-day tours and three meals. If we had booked those tours separately, it would have been more. Here's a summary of our two site-filled days in St. Petersburg.
Although our bus left the ship before 7 am, we soon got into bad traffic, so it took us almost 2 hours to reach our first site--Peterhof Palace on the Gulf of Finland west of St. Petersburg . This palace, like many St. Petersburg sites, opens early for tour groups with tickets, so we had less than 15 minutes before our 9 am entry to wait and used the time to walk around the expansive gardens.
Peterhof Palace was built by Peter the Great (who ruled Russia from 1682 to 1725) and is often called the "Russian Versailles" since it features gorgeous gardens and fountains like Versailles. He loved all things French and Peterhof, so the great ruler incorporated French design into St. Petersburg and this summer palace outside the city. It also has amazing rooms on the inside, but we were not allowed to take photos. I especially liked seeing Peter's study and desk, which was very simple--much unlike the rest of the palace.
We had a 45 minute tour of the inside and then were on our own to explore the expansive gardens and many fountains.  It was sprinkling rain, but we all had our raincoats, so it didn't bother us. At 11 am, the Grand Cascade began. This giant fountain on the front of the palace is quite impressive, and like all the fountains at the palace, is completely operated by gravity and water pressure, with no pumps or electricity.
We left Peterhof about 11:30 am and returned to St. Petersburg for lunch in a large touristy restaurant with about 200+ Princess passengers on other full-day tours that included lunch. We had sparkling wine, red wine, a shot of vodka, a bottle of water, caviar on a bliny, salad, potato soup, chicken, potatoes, pickled shredded carrots, and ice cream for dessert. All were accompanied by Russian folk music. Claire and I did the proper thing and downed our vodka shots in one gulp. We two "little old ladies" surprised our table mates. We later discussed that we both thought it was either watered-down vodka or extremely smooth since it went down easier than expected.
After lunch we visited Yusopov Palace. He was a Prince who lived in the early 20th century, and his home was where he and some compatriots killed the famous monk Rasputin. This palace is on one of the many canals in downtown St. Petersburg, and it was fun to see how the royals lived 100 years ago. The Palace had a huge grand staircase, a lovely old theater, and narrow stairs leading to the basement where Rasputin was first poisoned and then shot four times before being wrapped up and then dumped in a canal far away from the house. What's weird is that he drowned-the poison and shots didn't kill him!
Our last stop of the afternoon was at the Peter and Paul Cathedral. This huge church and fortress is on an island in the middle of the Neva River and was where Peter the Great founded St. Petersburg in 1703. Its tall golden tower can be seen from most of St. Petersburg, and it's topped by an angel.  This steeple is the tallest structure in St. Petersburg, which doesn't have any skyscrapers.We didn't tour the fortress, and the cathedral was packed with people. Our guide Kschenija had a rough time showing us around the inside of the church because of all the people. The main unique features inside are the tombs of all the Russian emperors/empresses/royalty.
Leaving Peter and Paul, we returned to the Royal Princess just long enough to change clothes and put our feet up for 15 minutes. (less than an hour) We left again at 6:30 for the long ride (about 15-20 miles) in Friday afternoon rush hour traffic to the small town of Pushkin to visit Tsarskoye Selo or the Catherine Palace.
We arrived about 8 pm and were greeted at the front door with water or juice. The afternoon sunlight (the sun had come out in the afternoon and didn't set until after 11 pm) was gorgeous on the blue/white/gold palace, which is similar in style, but much grander than the yellow/white/gold Peterhof.
I had visited the Catherine Palace three times before, but this was the first time at night. Like most places, it was so much more enjoyable sharing it with just a hundred or so people rather than thousands. The rooms looked even more marvelous than I remembered, especially the restored Amber Room and the Grand Ballroom, where we enjoyed a short concert of classical music and dancing while sipping champagne.  After the tour and concert, we went to a room in the other end of the palace (we rode the short distance on the bus) for dinner. This dinner was not as good as the lunch, although it had similarities (vodka, wine, champagne, and chicken). Since we didn't start dinner until about 10 pm, it was 12:30 am before we got back to the ship. They were having a Red Sails celebration for students graduating and/or ending the school year and a White Nights celebration for the longest day of the year. People were out on the streets and canals, despite the late hour. As we got off the bus, fireworks boomed over the Neva River. What a great way to end the day.
The only bad thing was we didn't get into bed until after 1 am and had to be on the bus the next morning at 7 am. Like the day before, we had to pass through passport control both leaving and boarding the ship, which took time, so we needed to be up at 5-a short night and another long day to follow, but (as someone said on the bus) we all did this to ourselves.
The sun was already shining on the other cruise ships we could see from our balcony when the alarm went off (for the second day in a row) at 5 am. We both took quick showers, dressed and headed off for a quick breakfast before meeting our bus outside on the pier for the third time at 7 am. Thankfully, although we had to go through passport control again and see the dour face of yet another Russian government worker, they didn't stamp our passports again or re-enter our information into whatever spy system they use to track visitors. So, the process went faster.
By the time we got on the bus, the sun had gone behind the clouds and the wind had picked up. We would be in the city all day (not venturing out west and then south like we did yesterday), so we wouldn't be walking around much in the rain. As it turned out, like Friday, we had a mixture of light rain, clouds, and sunshine, with temps in the 50's, so it was easily tolerable the short time we were outside.After stopping for a photo stop at the two large, red Rostral columns, where we could look back over the Neva River at the Hermitage, we had about 45 minutes to shop at a "bazaar", an indoor shop with prices ranging from $1 souvenirs to amber pieces and lacquer boxes costing thousands.  We wandered around, but didn't buy anything since we had done our shopping in Tallinn.
At these tour-included shopping places around the world, they always take dollars, euros, and local currencies, and the cruise line guarantees quality and genuineness of the goods. Some think the prices are a little higher since the ship gets some type of cut for taking its tour passengers there and recommending the shop.
Finally it was time to head to the Hermitage. We got off the bus and walked the short distance to the entrance. This huge museum opens to the public at 10:30 am, but those on tours enter earlier, so we were in at our scheduled 9 am start.  (Of course, those on tours have to exit by a certain time also-we had to be out by about 11:15 or thereabouts).
The Hermitage was as magnificent as I remembered. This time the temperature was just about right. When I had visited before, the mostly un-airconditioned building was stuffy at best, but mostly stifling. Can't believe this was my fourth visit to the Hermitage on a tour and saw even different pieces than before.
This building was originally the Winter Palace inside the city for the Tsars and their families. It's mostly done in green/white/gold, and was expanded several times after the first section was built by Empress Elizabeth. Catherine the Great, who loved to spend money, bought masterpieces in bulk, so she did most of the additions. The building has millions of pieces, and it would take over seven years just to see each one for a minute, according to our guide. (I think I've heard other numbers quoted, but let's just say you can't see much in two hours.) Claire said we were on a speed walking museum tour, but by the time we left at 11:15, the place was packed and it would have taken lots of pushing and standing on tiptoes to see the more famous pieces. Whole rooms (or galleries) are dedicated to masters like Rembrandt, Matisse, Da Vinci, and Picasso. There are also historical rooms with paintings of Russian field marshalls and a memorial room to Peter the Great. It's just humongous and always packed with tourists. Like the Catherine Palace, it is open to organized tours at night, which is much quieter and impressive, but also more expensive.
This visit we went to the Gold Room, which costs more to enter, but was included in our tour price. The Gold Room is buried deep inside this amazing museum, and Kcsenija kept warning us to stay with her since we would never find it on our own. If we got lost, we were to meet the group at 11:15 at the lobby/bathroom/sitting area near the entrance. We all stuck like glue, following the tiny guide quickly through the exhibits and finally reaching the Gold Room, which is actually a series of rooms with gold and jewels either dug up at archaeological sites in Russia or confiscated during the revolution. (I can't help but wonder how many pieces of jewelry and other treasures were kept by revolutionaries rather than putting them on exhibition.)  We didn't see any jeweled Fabrege eggs like those we saw in Moscow. Our guide said there were about a dozen in a private (not government) museum in St. Petersburg, but none in the Hermitage.
Although we could take non-flash photos in the main part of the Hermitage, none were allowed in the Gold Room. Unlike the Crown Jewels of London, this series of rooms didn't have crowns or other pieces, but did have some spectacular necklaces, snuff boxes, vanity sets, etc., along with many gifts presented to the royals by foreign governments like jewel-encrusted swords, etc. Very impressive, but when the stuff is so over the top, it's difficult to remember that it's real and not just costume jewelry or just plain gaudy.
Leaving the Hermitage, we re-boarded the bus for the short drive to the Church on Spilled Blood, St. Petersburg's onion-domed church that looks like the one in Red Square in Moscow.  This Russian Orthodox Church is spectacular on the inside and outside, and is another "must see". It was built on the very spot where Czar (or Tsar) Alexander II was killed by a terrorist suicide bomber in 1881, so it sits a little oddly between two main streets.
Like other Russian churches, this one was used for storage from 1917 (or after the revolution) until the 1990's. Kcsenija said it was covered in scaffolding and locked up during most of this time, although it was used to store potatoes and other government stores. There were plans to even destroy it, but the Peristroika and breakup of the Soviet Union in the early 1990's stopped that. The church is now a museum and not used for services. I love mosaics (must be because I also like jigsaw puzzles), and most of the interior is covered with them. A large cupola covers the spot where Alexander II was mortally wounded.
Next, it was time for our third chicken meal in 2 days, but what else can you feed 250 diverse people in a short time? This meal was in a lovely palace in the downtown area, and we had  wine, water, champagne, and a shot of vodka along with Russian potato salad (has peas, carrots and other veggies along with the carrots), chicken stroganoff, and yellow rice. Dessert was cake with lingonberries. Nothing to write home about (although I know I just did), but edible. Claire and I both agreed that they are making good use of some of these grand old buildings by using them to entertain tourists, who love to eat in grand surroundings, even if the food is only filling but not memorable (and certainly not as good as on the Royal Princess).
After lunch, we had a ride along the canals of St. Petersburg. The tide was very high, so we didn't get to see as much as when I've done other canal tours since we could barely squeeze under some of the very low bridges. We only passed under a couple of bridges and those of us sitting outside on the top deck had to duck to keep our heads from getting hit. I was a little surprised they let us sit outside.
The weather was dry and the ride was fun and relaxing. After the ride, we went to our last stop, St. Isaac's Cathedral. This massive church looks nothing like the Church on Spilled Blood, but its inside is impressive. We saw many bridal parties all over St. Petersburg, as I've seen on other visits. Most couples have a short civil wedding ceremony, followed by a ride around the city, taking photos at all the iconic sites. We saw a white stretch limo at St. Isaac's as long as a bus! (It was parked next to one, so we could easily measure) It was decorated for a bridal party.
Got back to the ship around 5:00 and we sailed around 6:00 pm. It was a busy two days in St. Petersburg, but we saw much more than if we had tried to tour on our own or had booked multiple half-day tours. Although eating on the ship would have been better, it would have taken time away from this magnificent city to have gone back and forth to the ship.
My friend Claire had never been to St. Petersburg and may never visit again. She loved everything and couldn't decide which thing she would have omitted from our tour. We both agreed we had chosen well.
The Royal Princess docked at the commercial dock in Helsinki. The ship had some interesting shore excursions, but after 29 hours of touring in St. Petersburg, we decided to go ashore and explore on our own. The $12 roundtrip (or 10 euro) Princess shuttle bus dropped us in the center of town near the Stockman's department store, which is Helsinki's equivalent of Macy's.
Probably the first thing most visitors to Helsinki notice is the difficult language and very long words. Whereas Norwegian, Danish, and Swedish have Germanic roots, Finnish is closer to Hungarian and very unlike these other Scandinavian languages.We used a guide book and a map of the city to do a walking tour. It was cold and a little rainy, but we dressed appropriately in layers and wore our raincoats. We walked to our furthest point from the shuttle stop and then worked our way back, so our first stop was the famous "Rock Church", whose real name is Temppeliaukio.
What is the Rock Church? It's not old since it was completed in 1969. It is unique. This contemporary church was built into the granite bedrock. The site was blasted out and the church sits in a giant hole. As seen in the photo above, its roof is a space-ship like dome surrounded by skylights. Since it sits in a hole, the Rock Church looks very odd when approaching. Its inside has the rock walls, but it's the dramatic ceiling that is eye catching. The inside of the round cupola dome is covered with 13 miles of concentric circles of copper wire. The ceiling and rock walls give the church a peaceful feel, despite the many visitors sitting in the pews and milling around. We agreed that the copper wire ceiling style would never work in Georgia since someone would immediately steal the copper wire!
Leaving the church, we walked by some of the museums before heading back downtown. Most of Helsinki has a more modern look than some of the cities we have visited. In the downtown area, we checked out another church, the big Lutheran St. Nicholas Cathedral that sits on Senate Square overlooking the harbor. It is surrounded by 19th century neo-classical buildings. Quite dramatic with its green dome and imposing site.
Our final destination was the Market Square that sits directly on the waterfront. Despite the rain, vendors were selling all sorts of food stuffs-berries, fried fish, meatballs, etc.
We got back to the ship about 2:30, an hour or so before we sailed for Stockholm. Three hours wasn't long to spend in Helsinki, but was enough to explore most everything within walking distance. It was the end of the summer solstice government holiday weekend, so many shops were closed. They had some nice local shopping in an enclosed building next to the ship, so did a little browsing there.
Some day I'd like to visit on a sunny day and take a guided tour of Helsinki. Other passengers told us how much they enjoyed visiting other sites in Helsinki that were not within walking distance. In addition, tours went to the nearby Porvoo, a Savijarvl horse breeding farm, or Suomenlinna Island Fortress, a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Large cruise ships like the Royal Princess cannot dock in Stockholm, so they dock in Nynashamn, which is about 45 miles south of the capital city. Nynashamn was the only tender port we had on the ship, and the tender ride was longer than most--about 1.2 miles or 2 kilometers, which took about 30 minutes each way.
Like many on the ship, we did a tour of Stockholm that covered many of the city's highlights. Those doing ship tours always have priority for the tenders, which is a good reason to do a tour if you like to be one of the first off the ship. If not doing a tour, wait a couple of hours for the crowds to disperse.
After disembarking the tender 8 am, we rode on a bus for about an hour. We had a quick photo stop to take panoramic shots of the city before heading to Stockholm's most visited attraction--the unique Vasa Museum. This museum is huge because it houses the Vasa, a 17th century warship that sank less than 20 minutes after it was launched. The ship was brought out of its watery grave in 1961 and this museum was built around it. This is a great attraction for all ages, and our tour group stayed at the Vasa Museum over an hour. Our guide did a short tour, and then we had free time to explore.
Next, we rode across the bridge to Gamla Stan, Stockholm's old town. Here, we toured the Royal Palace, which is one of Europe's largest with over 600 rooms. (No, the tour didn't take us to all of them.)  After the tour, we walked some of the old cobblestone streets, taking time to hear about the architecture and visit the town square before lunch in a local restaurant. Following lunch, we had free time before meeting the bus back at the Royal Palace.
Our last stop was at the beautiful City Hall. Like the one in Oslo, this local government building is spectacular on the inside, especially its large upstairs reception room covered in golden mosaics. The City Hall is the site of the annual Nobel Prize awards, so it has been visited by many great scientists, mathematicians, and writers.
All too soon, it was time to leave Stockholm and head back to the ship. I wish I could have taken my friend to Stockholm's famous Ice Bar, which was the world's first permanent ice bar. However, that's a good excuse for her to return.
As noted on the first nine pages of this travel journal, this 11-day Royal Princess cruise was very port intensive. People who travel to the Baltic and northern Europe want to see and experience as much of this fascinating part of the world as they can. However, we did have two full days at sea--one between Warnemunde and Tallinn, and the second between Stockholm and Copenhagen.
I'm glad we had some free time on this gorgeous ship, and the cruise director and his team filled our time at sea with many activities. Those who weren't resting between time in port were playing games, relaxing in the spa, listening to music, discussing the cruise with their new friends, or enjoying one of the many activities planned and available to do at sea.
The ship was full, and less than half of the guests were from North America. The ship had large groups from Japan, Russia, and other parts of the world, so I'm sure the international staff stayed busy. This diversity adds to the cruise experience since people come from all sorts of cultures, but they share an interest in travel and meeting others.
The weather on our June cruise was not as warm as it might be later in the summer, but many did sit outside and soak up the sea air and/or the sun. We spent some time in the hot tubs to relax, and met two young women from Namibia who were on their first cruise. Like everyone else I spoke with, they were loving the cruise experience, the ports of call, the food, and the friendliness and efficiency of the Royal Princess crew. They were going to return home, work hard, save money, and start to plan their next Princess cruise. Always nice to meet converts.
As is common in the travel industry, the writer was provided with complimentary cruise accommodation for the purpose of review. While it has not influenced this review, About.com believes in full disclosure of all potential conflicts of interest. For more information, see our Ethics Policy.
The city of St. Petersburg is located just across the bay from Tampa, along the coast of West Central Florida. The city has an overall average high temperature of 82 degrees Fahrenheit (28 degrees Celsius) and an average low of 66 degrees Fahrenheit (19 degrees Celsius). St. Petersburg is surrounded by water, which helps keep temperatures more moderate in the summertime and just a bit warmer in the winter.
Shorts and sandals are always in style and a great choice if you're on the beach side of the city, but visitors to downtown may want to dress in resort casual wear to blend in with the locals. Of course, don't forget to pack your bathing suit if you're visiting St. Pete Beach. While Gulf of Mexico temperatures can be quite chilly in the winter, sunbathing is usually not out of the question.
The weather usually cooperates in March for the Firestone Grand Prix, a world-class motorsport event that roars into town, but you may have to dodge some raindrops the following months if you take in a ballgame at Tropicana Field to see the Tampa Bay Rays play ball.
Fast Climate Facts
The Atlantic Hurricane season runs from June 1 through November 30, but August, September, and October are the most active months for tropical storms and hurricanes.
Historically, St. Petersburg has been hit by a number of devastating storms. In 2004, both Hurricane Frances and Hurricane Jeanne blew into town, and a year later, Hurricane Wilma battered the region. In 2017, a Category 4 storm named Hurricane Irma landed and caused significant damage across the coastlines.
If you are visiting during the hurricane season, download the hurricane app from the American Red Cross and be sure to stay up-to-date with incoming tropical storms.
Considering Florida is known as the Lightning Capital of the U.S., St. Petersburg is situated in what is often described as "Lightning Alley." Lightning is a serious risk during the area's summer thunderstorms, and visitors should be aware of how to protect themselves by staying inside, avoiding open spaces or tall objects, and not standing near metal—among others.
The Sunshine City is a great place to visit in the spring. In general, this time of year is drier, and temperatures haven't yet reached summer's peaks. Room rates can be higher due to popular sporting events, spring break, and the beautiful weather, but overall, it's worth it due to cooler temperatures and bright, sunny days.
What to pack: Bring a sweatshirt for the cooler evenings, but in general, short-sleeved tops, shorts, skirts, and dresses are appropriate spring attire in St. Petersburg.
Average Temperatures and Rainfall by Month
March: 75 F (24 C)/60 F (16 C), 3.3 inches
April: 80 F (27 C)/65 F (18 C), 1.9 inches
May: 86 F (30 C)/71 F (22 C), 2.8 inches
July and August are the warmest months in St. Petersburg, and they're also extremely humid thanks to high amounts of rainfall. With temperatures regularly exceeding 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 degrees Celsius), temperatures feel especially oppressive during these months. Hurricane season also kicks off on June 1. If you can bear the heat and humidity, this is a great time of the year to find discounts.
What to pack: Pack breathable, light clothing, such as shorts, T-shirts, sundresses, and flowy blouses that won't stick to your skin. Don't forget sunscreen and beachwear too!
Average Temperatures and Rainfall by Month
June: 89 F (32 C)/75 F (24 C), 6.1 inches
July: 90 F (30 C)/77 F (25 C), 6.7 inches
August: 90 F (30 C)/77 F (25 C), 8.3 inches
The heat and rain continue into September, which is also the month with the highest likelihood of hurricane activity. Luckily, by October, things cool down a bit and also dry up. In November, as most of the rest of the country fully enters winter, you can expect long, dry days in St. Petersburg with very little rainfall and pleasantly warm temperatures.
What to pack: While a September visit will warrant summer-appropriate clothing, you'll be able to bust out the sweaters (or at least a cardigan!) for the evenings by the time October rolls around. Luckily, it never gets too cold for short-sleeves during the day in St. Petersburg.
Average Temperatures and Rainfall by Month
September: 88 F (31 C)/76 F (24 C), 7.6 inches
October: 83 F (28 C)/70 F (21 C), 2.6 inches
November: 77 F (25 C)/63 F (17 C), 2 inches
St. Petersburg gets a little cooler during the winter months, but never so cold that you can't enjoy spending time outdoors. Temperatures during the day hover well above 60 degrees Fahrenheit (16 degrees Celsius), with nights dropping to 50 degrees Fahrenheit (10 degrees Celsius)—just enough for a light jacket, but you'll almost never need anything heavier. Manatee sightings are common during this time of the year.
What to pack: Add a light jacket to your suitcase, but otherwise, relish in not having to pack heavy winter gear like the rest of the U.S.
Average Temperatures and Rainfall by Month
December: 71 F (22 C)/56 F (13 C), 2.6 inches
January: 69 F (21 C)/54 F (12 C), 2.8 inches
February: 71 F (22 C)/55 F (13 C), 2.9 inches
Although central Florida is typically warm year-round, the amount of sunlight you'll have to enjoy downtown St. Petersburg or St. Pete Beach and the amount of rainfall you can expect varies greatly depending on when you visit. Winter and spring are the best seasons to visit because you'll experience plenty of warm weather without too many rainstorms.
Florida's leading gay and lesbian vacation destination on the Gulf of Mexico, the St. Petersburg region comprises a downtown fringing Tampa Bay that's undergone a significant renaissance as well as a string of eclectic - and often historic - waterfront communities from quaint Pass-A-Grille (an easy drive from gay-popular Sunset Beach) to artsy Gulfport to the tony resort of Clearwater Beach. Host each June to St. Petersburg Gay Pride, the largest in the state, the area is home to a diverse mix of gay-friendly lodging choices, from grand hotels to elegant B&Bs, plus Florida's largest gay resort. Here's a look at some of the best places to stay.
Also, take a look at the St. Petersburg Gay Nightlife Guide for tips on where to dine and go out.
Across from the famed Vinoy Hotel, this captivating circa-1910 house was the residence for many years of none other than Aymer Vinoy Laughner, the man beyond the hotel that bears his name. Now the Beach Drive Inn and operated by capable innkeepers Heather and Roland Martino, the upscale clapboard B&B has six rooms and suites, some with views of the downtown waterfront and Tampa Bay. The two suites, as well as some rooms, have large Jacuzzi tubs with showers, and all have coffeemakers, mini-refrigerators, robes, and free Wi-Fi and off-street parking (by no means a given in downtown St. Petersburg). There's also a rooftop sundeck and lush gardens surrounding this inn. One more plus: It's the only B&B in the city licensed to sell beer and wine.
Set in the heart of downtown St. Petersburg's Historic Old Northeast district, which is noted for its rich mix of late-19th-century and early-20th-century homes, the gay-owned Dickens House is about a century old and is a classic example of the Arts and Crafts design movement. Proprietor Ed Caldwell has done a marvelous job restoring the house, with its broad veranda and distinctive architectural features. Accommodations include three full suites and two rooms, ranging from a cozy attic room with pitched ceilings and a small bathroom with a whirlpool tub to the roomy Dickens Suite with a high four-poster canopy bed, a large sitting area, and a two-person shower-spa. Breakfasts are seriously delicious and ornate. The clientele is mixed.
Like the slightly less elaborate Vinoy in downtown St. Petersburg, this wedding cake of a building is painted in creamy pink, was built in the 1920s, has hosted numerous dignitaries and celebs, and fronts the water - in this case, the Gulf of Mexico. Like the Vinoy, the venerable Don CeSar also fell into a state of abandonment (after serving as a VA building) and was nearly torn down but has been beautifully renovated and now ranks among the region's most luxurious resorts. This turreted beauty is set along a stunning swath of sugary sand in St. Pete Beach and has oodles of amenities: a substantial spa and excellent indoor and outdoor restaurants. It's also very close to St. Petersburg's gay beach on Treasure Island as well as the charming village of Gulfport, with its inviting bars and restaurants.
This no-frills, formerly mainstream hotel was transformed in 2009 into Florida's largest gay resort and entertainment complex. The Flamingo has 128 rooms - they're quite basic and dated, and unfortunately not as well-maintained as they could be, but they're dirt-cheap and have free Wi-Fi, cable TV, and safes. The Flamingo's primary draw is for social butterflies - there's a huge, nicely landscaped pool and three different bars, plus a restaurant. From happy hours to pool parties to Sunday T-dances, there's always a lot going on. The Flamingo is a 10-minute drive south of downtown and from the beaches, just off I-275. You need a car to travel around the area.
Similar in style to the small men's resorts in Key West and Fort Lauderdale, this 1920s house in historic Kenwood - a short drive from several popular gay bars and restaurants in the Grand Central District - has both long-term and overnight accommodations. Rates are reasonable, and all the more so if you stay for a week or longer. Rooms are home-y and cheerfully decorated, with some opening directly to the clothing-optional pool. Other amenities include a six-person hot tub, dry sauna, and exercise room, and rates include Continental breakfast, as well as an evening happy hour. Host Brian Longstreth is very active in promoting St. Petersburg as a gay destination and can provide plenty of advice on what to see and do nearby.
Part of the hip, gay-popular Indigo Hotel brand, developed in 2006 by InterContinental Hotels, this stylish, lime-green property is within walking distance of downtown's fast-emerging retail and dining scene and just off of I-375 and I-275 - it's just three blocks from the Straub Park and the waterfront overlooking Tampa Bay. Apart from the central location, consider staying at the Indigo for its contemporary, airy rooms with hardwood floors, pale-green color schemes, whimsical artwork, and compact but well-equipped baths. There's also a good-size outdoor pool, an exercise room, free Wi-Fi, a small business center, and a casual, attractive restaurant serving cocktails at night and breakfast in the morning (plus room service).
Steps from the several cool restaurants and shops, as well as the gay bar Kelly's/Blur, in charming downtown Dunedin, this eight-room property is a perfect base if you're staying in the northern reaches of greater St. Petersburg - it's close to Clearwater Beach, and also a pretty easy drive from downtown Tampa. A big advantage here is that each room or suite has a private entrance, ensuring plenty of privacy - and the tree-shaded grounds include a pool, gazebo, and orchid garden. Rooms at this LGBTQ favorite have porches or balconies, well-chosen art and antiques (themes range from Art Deco to Southwest to Contemporary), and - in two suites - full kitchens. Breakfast is an impressive feast.
This beautiful hip-roofed 1923 house overlooking Boca Ciega Bay and - across the water - St. Pete Beach, is one of the most inviting of the area's B&Bs. It's definitely the ideal accommodation if you want to be in the heart of artsy, eclectic Gulfport. The trendy dining and gallery scene along Beach Boulevard, as well as Gulfport's beach and fishing pier all lie within a few minutes' walk from the LBGTQ-friendly Sea Breeze Manor Inn, which contains six warmly-decorated suites. There's plenty of room to spread out, as each unit has a separate sitting area, as well as a patio or balcony - rates include full breakfast as well as snacks and refreshments. It's a terrific property, inside and out.
It's hard to believe this sleek, study in Mid-Century Modern, situated along the Gulf in St. Pete Beach, used to be a homely Travelodge. The Postcard Inn, which is home to the trendy restaurant Wildwood BBQ & Burger, is a low-slung building with access to some of the most beautiful white-sand beach in the region, plus it has a large pool with a beach bar. Rooms are stylishly modern and hip, with clean lines, whimsical furnishings, free Wi-Fi, flat-screen TVs, and a funky old-school aesthetic. The clientele tends toward the hip and fun-loving, with a significant contingent of LGBTQ guests. Poolside cabana rooms are a real treat - perfect if you're a social butterfly or celebrating a special occasion.
One of the most celebrated Mediterranean Revival buildings in Florida, the Vinoy Renaissance enjoys an enviable setting on Tampa Bay, steps from the many new and up-and-coming restaurants and shops in downtown St. Petersburg, as well as the Museum of Fine Arts and St. Pete Pier. The glitzy pink-turreted hotel opened in 1927 and hosted countless luminaries - from Babe Ruth to Calvin Coolidge - during its heyday. It's again a favorite of visiting celebs and a popular choice among LGBTQ travelers, but the hotel was shuttered in the 1970s and nearly razed before undergoing a massive restoration and expansion, which led to a second more modern wing, in the 1990s. With smartly appointed rooms, a spa and health club, and superb restaurants, it's a gem today.
Getting into Russia is easy if you are on a cruise or organized group. If you go ashore with an organized shore excursion or a licensed guide, you need only carry your passport. It does not have to be an excursion sponsored by the ship, but you will need to get the paperwork in advance via email from any local guide you use for touring. (The cruise ship will return your passport for the duration of your St. Petersburg stay and reclaim it before you sail.)
However, if you want to do independent touring of St. Petersburg, you will need a Visa. Getting your Russian Visa isn't difficult but can take several weeks of pre-cruise planning. If you know that you want to tour on your own, check with your travel agent or cruise line to arrange for a Visa. This cannot be done after you sail and is fairly expensive, so if you are on an ocean-going ship with St. Petersburg as a port of call, you are probably better off using a ship's shore excursion or a local organized tour guide.
St. Petersburg's weather can be brutal in the winter, but summer brings temperatures into the 70's and 80's. Since the city is located on about the same latitude as Oslo, Stockholm, and Helsinki, it has wonderfully long daylight hours from May to September. It's also as far north as Alaska!
The Russian Ruble (RUB) is the local currency. Banks and exchange offices are open Monday through Friday from 9:30 am to 5:30 pm for those wishing to exchange currency. Major credit cards are widely accepted, and ATMs are increasingly common. The souvenir shops accept dollars, as did all of the street vendors. However, restaurants and other shops require the use of rubles. We used a credit card for larger purchases.
Russian is the official language of St. Petersburg, but English is widely spoken. The Russian language uses the Cyrillic alphabet, but many signs in tourist areas feature both Russian and English.
Most stores are open Monday through Saturday from 9:00 am to 5:00 pm, and stores along Nevsky Prospect, a main shopping street, may stay open until about 8:00 pm. The cruise ship pier we docked at has numerous souvenir shops, and even some with jewelry and handicrafts. (Some small cruise ships can sail further up the Neva River and dock at another pier - be sure that if you tour independently that you know where your ship is docked!)
Shopping kiosks are found throughout the city, with a large market across the street from the Church on the Spilled Blood. Pickpockets do frequent the tourist areas, so watch your bags and cameras. Street vendors are plentiful at all tourist sites. The price for books and souvenirs is much better when you are boarding the tour bus to leave a site than it is when you first arrive!
Most cruise ships spend two days or three days in St. Petersburg, but that's still not nearly enough time to see everything. An organized ship's tour or a tour guide is your best bet to see as much as possible efficiently. A tour of St. Petersburg on one of the many canal boats combined with a bus tour is a good way to get an overview of the city. Most people want to visit one of the most famous museums in the world, the Hermitage. Other important sites to see in the city include Yusopov's Palace, Peter and Paul Fortress, and the Fabrege Museum.
Day trips to Catherine's Palace and to  Peterhof are very interesting and worth the bus ride. You also get to see some of the Russian countryside.
Summer is uncontested in its popularity for travelers to St. Petersburg, Russia. Not only is the weather ideal for sightseeing, but also the long days and summer events create an energetic, festive atmosphere. Travel both within and outside the city is enjoyable. The downside to summer travel to St. Petersburg, or Peter, as the locals call it, is the crowds that choke the city’s pedestrian thoroughfares and contribute to long queues for major attractions. If you are planning to travel to St. Petersburg during the months of June, July, or August, advance planning is important.
St. Petersburg’s weather during summer is typical for a destination in a northern latitude: Average highs are in the 70s F, though heat waves are not unheard of. Mornings and evenings might be slightly chilly, especially if you are traveling in late May and early June or late August and early September.
While you will find summer clothes acceptable, you should bring less casual attire if you plan to enter Russian Orthodox churches, which require that men and women have their legs covered and women have their shoulders and hair covered. Evening concerts, which are prevalent during St. Petersburg’s White Nights, also require less casual attire than what would be worn for daytime sightseeing. It's smart to have a small umbrella handy for sudden showers. Pack layers to accommodate any chill in the air.
Summer is the perfect time to visit St. Petersburg palaces or take a day trip from St. Petersburg. Many palaces or nearby attractions have gardens or outdoor spaces to enjoy, so while one person in your travel group scouts around to find how to buy tickets or where queues begin, the rest of your group can enjoy strolls in the open air.
Additionally, don’t forget to check out St. Petersburg’s must-see sights, which include monuments and landmarks that have an integral place in Petersburg legend and history. They include the Bronze Horseman statue, the Church of Our Savior on the Spilt Blood, and the Peter and Paul Cathedral and Fortress.
Visit the Hermitage Museum, which is Russia’s equivalent of the Louvre. This former palace houses collections of art and historic artifacts from all parts of the globe.
The most popular event for summer in St. Petersburg is the White Nights Festival, which runs annually from about the beginning of June to mid-July, though the dates vary slightly from year to year. (In 2019, it begins on May 23 and runs through July 29). Though the classical music concerts that coincide with this time of year, when the days are at their longest, may be the most famous aspect of this festival, daytime events are organized around the city as well.
Because summer is the busiest tourist season in St. Petersburg, you should book your hotel well in advance to guarantee the best deals, necessary amenities, and a good location.
Visitors from the United States ​must have a visa to travel to Russia, which should be purchased well in advance of travel to avoid delays. In addition to booking a hotel early, equally important is planning other aspects of the trip well before you go. Because gaining entrance into some sites, such as museums and palaces, isn’t always straightforward and crowds can be formidable, make a list of the attractions you find most important to see along with some alternatives. Then find out how you can get to them, where the ticket offices are, and what the process is for purchasing tickets. You might also want to find out in advance if you will be able to use video or photo equipment while you are there.
The Hermitage (officially the State Hermitage Museum) is one of the most famous museums in the world. Spread over several buildings lining the Neva River in St. Petersburg, this museum is way too large to see in just a few hours. Most cruisers visit with a tour group on a half-day excursion and can see many of the art pieces and gaze at the beautiful decor.The Hermitage was once the palace of Catherine the Great, who used it as a private place of retreat and solitude, or a Hermitage. Tours enter through the Winter Palace on the ground floor and walk up the magnificent Jordan Staircase to the first floor. The rooms on the first floor are breathtaking, with many of the rooms restored as they were during Imperial times. The second floor is not architecturally as dramatic as the first floor but has many important French paintings. Be sure to glance through the windows on the second floor for a great view of the Palace Square and the Alexander Column.
The Hermitage was once the winter residence of the Russian Tsars. It was designed by Rastrelli.
The main staircase of the Winter Palace is also known as the Jordan Staircase since it was used by the royal family to go to the Neva River for christenings.
The Peacock Clock is the only large 18th-century automaton in the world to still be functioning in its original unaltered condition.
The Peacock Clock of the Hermitage also includes the figures of a cockerel and owl. All three of the birds move. Catherine II loved collecting, and Grigory Potiomkin ordered the piece for her from celebrated goldsmith and clockmaker James Cox.
The Raphael Loggias of the Hermitage are almost an exact replica of the loggias at the Vatican.
One of the differences between the Hermitage Rapael loggias and those at the Vatican is the double headed eagle, the symbol of Russia, on this panel.
