
Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Beautiful Stockholm is Sweden’s largest city and one of Europe’s most charming capitals that gets some of the most sunlight. With historic architecture, a vibrant arts scene, delicious culinary offerings of all kinds, and famously friendly people, Stockholm really is a must-visit for urban travelers from around the world. As with any large city, though, getting a lay of the land can be a bit tricky, and digging deeper than the typical touristic offerings is even trickier. A high-quality tour can solve both of these problems, offering you a guided overview of the geography of a neighborhood or the city as a whole, and also offering you a local window into the best things to see, hear, and eat throughout your vacation.
Stockholm has many different tours on offer, with different transportation options, themes, and even target audiences. Have a look at these, the very best that Viator has to offer — odds are good that one (or more!) of them will suit your fancy and enhance your Stockholm visit tremendously.
Getty Images
Hop-on/hop-off tours are generally an ideal choice if you’re trying to get a broad sense for the available tourist attractions in a city, and this one is a shining example of their convenience. With 21 different bus stops and seven different boat stops, you can see all of Stockholm’s major attractions — everything from the Royal Palace to ABBA the Museum — at your own pace, taking the time you need at each, and skipping the ones that don’t interest you entirely.
The bus and boat are both equipped with audio commentary in 10 languages, so you can learn about what you’re seeing as you head from stop to stop, or simply relax and take a full loop while listening. The bus and boat also both offer Wi-Fi, so you can upload all of your fresh selfies from each stop as you travel to the next. The ticket is good for 24 hours (a 72-hour upgrade is available) and the vehicles run from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily. 
Getty Images
The best way to see the historic center of Stockholm, with its cobbled streets that were designed for horses, not cars, is on foot. This tour pairs you with an expert local guide who will show you around their beloved home city and give you thoughtful insight into its history and culture.
The tour begins at Stortorget, the oldest town square in Stockholm, where you’ll meet your guide and set off. You’ll visit the Storkyrkan (Coronation Church) and see its famous statue of St. George slaying the dragon, the Kungliga Slottet (Royal Palace), still the home of Sweden’s royal family, and other sights of Gamla Stan (Old Town).
After you’ve explored this area with your guide, you’ll hop a quick ferry to the small island of Djurgården, where the Vasa Museum, one of the world’s greatest maritime museum, stands. Your guide will introduce you to the circa 1628 warship who sank on her maiden voyage and was pulled from the waters just outside the Stockholm harbor in the early 1960s, largely intact. After your half-hour guided tour, you’ll bid farewell to your guide, and you can head back to your hotel or continue exploring this fascinating interpretive museum, which explores Swedish history through the lens of this remarkable salvage.
Viator
Stockholm, like most of Northern Europe, is ultra-bike-friendly, with thousands of Stockholmers commuting via bicycle daily on dedicated lanes and roads that weave through the city. This tour takes advantage of the fact that bikes can cover a lot of territory fast, but allows for the sort of deep exploration that can’t be done from the bulk of a vehicle, especially in the older parts of the city.
It’s not necessary to be a serious cyclist to take the tour, but it does cover about nine (almost entirely flat) miles over the course of three hours, so you should be comfortable with that level of exertion. You’ll begin your tour at a bike shop in central Stockholm, where you’ll be fitted with a bike and helmet. From there, your guide will lead you into Gamla Stan (Old Town) to view some of the city’s more striking historical monuments, including the Royal Palace and the Swedish Parliament.
From there, you’ll ride through historic residential neighborhoods, along the waterfront pathways of the city’s many islands, and past major tourist attractions, gaining a deep sense of the city, from top to bottom. It’s a particularly excellent way to orient yourself to the city’s geography, so do it early in your trip if you can.
Getty Images
It wouldn’t be a proper trip to the “Venice of the North” if you didn’t get on the water at least once, and this comfy (and surprisingly affordable) sightseeing tour gives you the opportunity to really get in and around the many waterways that lace through this archipelago city.
Climb upon your sightseeing boat at Strömkajen and find a seat on either the open deck or in the windowed cabin. You’ll be provided with an audio headset that will introduce you to 15 of Stockholm’s most picturesque bridges as you pass under them, all of the neighborhoods you pass by, and even give you some insight into the complicated and genuinely fascinating lock system that allows boats to pass between Lake Mälaren to the west and the Baltic Sea to the east.
Definitely bring your camera, as the views of the city from the water — Gamla Stan in particular — are exquisite.
Getty Images
Swedes are famous for their love of the outdoors and enjoy getting as close to nature as possible as often as is practical. Take a cue from them and enjoy this kayak tour through the heart of the city, from which you’ll get all of the great waterfront views of the Old Town while propelling yourself through these ancient waterways with your own two arms.
You don’t need to be an expert kayaker — the calm waters of Stockholm’s protected bays and waterways are ideal for helping novices get their sea legs and learn to maneuver these little boats. You’ll meet your guide at the edge of a bay near the city’s center and be fitted with a life jacket and a kayak, and attend both a quick on-land safety briefing and in-water training session, and then you’re off!
You’ll paddle past Stadhuset (City Hall), Gamla Stan, artsy Södermalm, and more, getting both a beautiful view of the city and a great core workout. 
Getty Images
Though Copenhagen is the city most frequently associated with New Nordic Cuisine, the clean, micro-local style that has swept the culinary world for the past decade, the deep culinary traditions and modern innovations of Sweden are very much part of the trend. This four-hour walking tour takes a deep dive into the country’s culinary history and modern movements, with plenty of walking in between stops to keep you hungry.
Your food-loving guide will meet you at Õstermalms Saluhall, Stockholm’s oldest food market, where you’ll get a tour of both the building’s architecture and some of its more delicious stall offerings, including modern Swedish meatballs, a healthy and delicious contemporary take on the classic. From there, you’ll stroll through Stureplan on the way to Kungsgatan, where you’ll eat some delicious fresh seafood while sipping on white wine. Among several other stops, you’ll also visit Chokoladfabriken for cardamom-infused hot chocolate and Fagel & Vilt for smoked reindeer and elk salami.
Your final stop will be for a traditional Swedish fika (afternoon snack) of strong coffee and kanelbullar, a fluffy, buttery cinnamon roll. This tour is ideal for early in your trip, as you’ll get a million ideas for what and where to eat. And you really do gain a tremendous understanding of a culture by learning about their food and eating habits, so you’ll gain much more than just a full belly.
Getty Images
Any city founded in the 1200s is sure to be chock-full of eerie tales, both ancient and modern, and Stockholm is certainly no exception. This spooky (and pleasantly campy) tour takes you on an evening walk by lantern light through the ancient streets of Gamla Stan, where you’ll hear about unsettled spirits, vampires, murders, public executions, unsolved mysteries, and other spine-tingling tales.
Your guide will illuminate much of the straight factual history of this oldest corner of the city, as well, though the tour is not focused so much on the traditional tourist stops, instead weaving you through back alleys and lesser-known cobbled streets. The tour is in English, and because of somewhat gruesome content, is not recommended for children under eight or the faint-hearted. 
Getty Images
If you’re looking to get off the beaten path and see some areas of the city that are less traveled by visitors, consider this quirky walking tour of the bohemian areas of Stockholm, one of the world’s most artistically vibrant cities. You’ll meet your private guide in front of the City Museum at Ryssgården and travel with them by ferry to the trendy island of Södermalm. There, you’ll explore hip boutiques, quirky galleries, cozy cafes, and some of Södra Teatern’s fabulous and cutting-edge beer bars.
You’ll see the fictional home of Lisbeth Salander, from Stieg Larsson’s Millennium series (The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo et al) and the site of some very real public executions. You’ll also visit the beautiful Katarina Kyrka and its cemetery, where many famous Swedes are buried. You’ll climb to the Fjällgatan lookout point for the best views of Stockholm and finally descend into the chic SoFo (South of Folkungatan) district, where your tour will conclude and you can continue on to explore on your own.
Because this is a private tour, there’s plenty of flexibility built in, so don’t be afraid to explain what sorts of things you particularly enjoy, be they clothing boutiques or craft beer, and your guide will be sure to include plenty in your travels.
Getty Images
If you’re coming into Stockholm on a cruise ship and want to see as much as you can while you’re in port, consider this fabulous sightseeing tour, which packs an impressive amount of the city’s highlights into just five hours, and even manages to give you a fair bit of free time to explore on your own.
The tour begins with a pickup from the cruise port (all three docking areas are serviced), where you’ll board a comfortable motorcoach for a scenic ride through downtown Stockholm. You’ll disembark for a guided tour of the amazing Vasa Museum, with its preserved antique warship, and then it’s back on the bus for more sightseeing.
You’ll see the Royal Palace, the Royal Opera, the Parliament Building, and other beautiful landmarks before making another stop, this time at Gamla Stan, Stockholm’s oldest neighborhood. Here, you’ll enjoy a guided walking tour before having some free time to eat, shop, or simply wander the narrow medieval alleys, imagining the lives of countless generations of Stockholmers who have walked these streets.
Our writers spent 2 hours researching the most popular “mini-projectors” on the market. Before making their final recommendations, they considered 40 different projectors overall, screened options from 40 different brands and manufacturers and read over 60 user reviews (both positive and negative). All of this research adds up to recommendations you can trust.
Stockholm, Sweden's biggest city, offers travelers and locals a wide range of enjoyable activities. One of the most charming capitals in Europe, Stockholm has everything from an island filled with museums and historic monuments to cool neighborhoods with cafés, flea markets, and funky shops to a great arts scene—even visible in many subway stations. Visitors will have a chance for once-in-a-lifetime moments like watching the Royal Palace's changing of the guard and touring the 600-room palace, or soaking up the nightlife at a bar made of ice, serving drinks in glasses also created with ice.
Johner Images / Getty Images
One of Stockholm's top destinations for locals and tourists, Djurgården (The Royal Game Park) is an island in the middle of the city known for its beautiful green spaces, historic buildings and monuments, museums, events, the amusement park Gröna Lund, and more. The popular island has more than 10 million visitors each year. In the warmer months, the location is perfect for an interesting 2-hour walking tour across the island.
Vladislav Zolotov / Getty Images
For visitors to see all of Stockholm's attractions at once, try a guided tour through the city. Take a walking tour to see the cobblestone streets of the city center while you learn about the capital's past and local culture. Kayak lovers can float through the heart of the city and catch great waterfront views. Or try a bicycle tour through historic neighborhoods, along the waterfront pathways of the city’s many islands, and past main tourist attractions,
brittak / Getty Images
For some fun for the whole family, head to Grona Lund Amusement Park, a popular attraction in Stockholm's Djurgården. The park, typically open from late April/March through September, has a variety of things to do, like tea cup rides, a haunted "House of Nightmares," over 60 summer concerts, and games such as skeeball (rolling balls on a slope).
When hunger strikes, you'll find everything from Mexican food to vegan fare like falafel, pizza, and veggie burgers.
Richard J. Nemeth / Flickr
If you are more interested in nightlife and bars, you'll find plenty in Stockholm. Party lovers should not miss a chilly bar made of ice inside Hotel C Stockholm, called ICEBAR, where your drink is also in a glass composed of ice—bring your warm clothes since the temperature inside is 23 degrees Fahrenheit (-5 degrees Celsius). Or head to Fasching, a jazz club with new and known international artists, along with a restaurant.
Massimo Foti / Flickr
In 1628, the warship Vasa sailed from Stockholm on her maiden voyage and sank. Three centuries later, Vasa was discovered and salvaged and is now the world's best-preserved 17th-century ship, decorated with numerous carved sculptures. The Vasa Museum in Djurgården is one of the most visited museums in Scandinavia and has been chosen as one of the Seven Wonders of Sweden. A restaurant and a store for picking up souvenirs are also onsite.
Brian Dooley / Flickr / CC BY 2.0
When it opened in 2013, ABBA The Museum became the world's first official museum honoring the Swedish 1970s pop band, and ABBA fans from around the world unite to soak it all in. Located in Djurgården in central Stockholm, the interactive museum offers a cinema with over 30 seats, guided tours, and audio guides in several languages. Plus, visitors have a chance to play virtual dress-up with the band's costumes and explore other interesting exhibits about the band famous for songs like "Dancing Queen" and "Take a Chance on Me."
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson 
For many people, watching the changing of the Royal Guard (part of the Swedish Armed Forces) in Stockholm is a once-in-a-lifetime experience rich in history: The Royal Guard has been safeguarding the palace in Stockholm since 1523. This free 40-minute event takes place every day of the year in front of the Royal Palace, the king of Sweden's sprawling, 11-story residence. It's interesting for adults and children to see, making it a popular attraction.
ZenShui / Alix Minde / Getty Images
If you like to go shopping, Stockholm is often considered the "shopping capital of the North," as it's known for modern Scandinavian design and artwork as well as Swedish fashion in name brand stores and smaller boutiques. Among the stores famous for art and design in Stockholm's inner city are Svenskt Tenn and Asplund. Swedish homes are often synonymous with Ikea, which helped several innovative furniture and accessories designers.
kn1 / Getty Images
If you're visiting in the winter, one fun activity for families or individuals is to go ice skating at Kungsträdgården Park in the heart of Stockholm. Ice skating is a popular and free Scandinavian activity in the colder months and is a favorite winter pastime for both visitors and locals in Stockholm. The park is open daily and has skates available for rent.
Henk Hulshof / Getty Images
One of Stockholm's major cultural attractions, the Royal Palace has more than 600 rooms. Built during the 18th century in Italian Baroque style, it's the Swedish king's official residence.
Visitors can see the Royal Apartments and three museums, including The Treasury, which displays the regalia from coronation day. The Three Crowns museum details the original Tre Kronor Palace that was destroyed in a 1697 fire. Gustav III's Museum of Antiquities amazingly opened back in 1794—visitors can see Gustav III's collection of sculptures.
Guided tours in English, Chinese, and Russian are available a few times a day; pay when buying your entrance ticket.
Kirsty Komuso / Flickr
Skansen, the world's first open-air museum, opened in 1891 in Djurgården to show how life in Sweden was before the Industrial Age through a display of houses and farmsteads from around the country. Year-round festivities include an Easter market, summer dancing and concerts, Christmas markets, and more.
Nordic animals such as moose, wolves, and seals call Skansen home. There is also a Children’s Zoo with small domestic animals such as cats and rabbits. For a separate admission fee, visitors can experience the Skansen Aquarium (and the World of Monkeys), which features fish, crocodiles, lizards, snakes, and dozens of other exotic species.
Anna-Karin Sallander / Flickr
If you want to see the largest children's bookstore in Sweden, head to Junibacken on Djurgården, a great attraction for the little ones—the focus is on Swedish children’s literature and the author Astrid Lindgren. Play in the garden while taking in one of Stockholm’s best views or check out Storybook Square, a fictional public square in which each house is devoted to a children’s author from Sweden. There's also a theater and restaurant.
CHRISTINE OLSSON / Getty Images
Södermalm, an island in the middle of Stockholm, is a fun way to spend a day. Tantolunden is a good park for relaxing with a picnic, swimming, or playing frisbee golf in the summer. Nearby, the blocks south of the street Folkungagatan, referred to as "SoFo," are full of unique music, clothing, and other shops, as well as restaurants and cafés.
Fotografiska, one of the world’s largest contemporary photography hubs, has a souvenir shop and a restaurant. Södra Teatern, the 19th-century theater with live music and theater performances, is another must; the venue also offers great city views.
visitstockholm.com
When you are traveling in Stockholm, take advantage of the abundance of cafés and get into this country's lovely tradition of fika, the state of mind which entails slowing down and socializing with loved ones, friends, or colleagues over a cup of coffee and a treat such as kanelbullar (cinnamon buns) or äppelkaka (a slice of apple cake). Some people enjoy a smörgås, an open sandwich, with their coffee. The most important part is that your fika entails interacting with others and relaxing.
Scott Hadfield/ Flickr
The Stadsbiblioteket, or the Stockholm Public Library, was designed by world-famous architect Gunnar Asplund in 1928. Sweden's largest public library, it's also one of the city's standout buildings—with a striking central book-filled roundabout on the inside and a chandelier above—and is among the world’s most famously beautiful libraries both inside and outside. The branch open daily has over 400,000 books, and features author visits and reading circles.
benedek / Getty Images
Many tourists enjoy Stortorget, a historic public square in Gamla Stan, Stockholm's old town, where they can go to local cafés or shops, or see a lively Christmas market with food and crafts. Stortorget is surrounded by colorful 17th- and 18th-century buildings; one of interest is Börshuset, the former stock exchange building that now houses the Nobel Prize Museum.
The square has had some darker moments in history: It was the scene of the Stockholm Bloodbath, a series of nearly 100 executions in the year 1520.
Birgittas / Getty Images
Stockholm has several markets held on the weekends—a nice opportunity to pick up some fresh produce and crafts and do some people watching. In Södermalm, a farmers market is held every Saturday from August through October; look for organic and locally-produced vegetables and fruit, and more. From May to October on certain weekends, there's a large outdoor flea market where locals sell used items such as antiques, household items, and clothes.
alxpin / Getty Images
If you are using public transportation in Stockholm or are just an art lover, don't miss the subway system, dubbed the world's longest art exhibit at 68 miles (110 kilometers) long. Stockholm's 100 subway stations have been adorned with paintings, installations, sculptures, mosaics, and additional creative works by over 150 artists. Check out the Solna Centrum station, which features bright green forest and red sunset landscapes, and the Tensta station, which has a colorful display of animal sculptures and leaves.
Stockholm, Sweden is known to be an expensive city, but many travelers don't know that there are numerous free things to do in Stockholm as well.
Consider a Swedish City Card, a travel discount card which offers travelers in Sweden cheap or free transportation in Swedish cities, along with many other discounts.
You can visit beautiful churches and museums, see the changing of the guard at the King's residence and even laze on the beach—all without spending a Krona. As you travel, you'll want to speak a little Swedish with phrases will help you connect with the locals.
Take a look at this travel season's 10 best activities and sights in Stockholm that are ideal for a traveler on a budget. A map of the area can help to get you started.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
The guard of the Swedish royal family consists of 30,000 individual guards. Watching this free 40-minute event in front of the residence of the King of Sweden is a very popular attraction in Stockholm.
The Royal Guard ceremony is scheduled differently in the summer than in the winter. From April 23 to August 31, the ceremonial march through central Stockholm is accompanied by a full military band from the Swedish Armed Forces Music Center. On the King's birthday, April 30, the guards parade to the royal palace on horseback.
No matter what the season, the changing of the guard is a ceremony worth seeing.
Stockholm's Djurgården, a nature park, is an island right in the middle of Stockholm, known for its beautiful green spaces and many sights. Two significant attractions do have entry fees. The park is known for the Vasa Museum, which houses the 17th-century warship that is a must-see. At the Skansen open-air museum, you can see Swedish craftspeople and a living history village.
However, it costs nothing to walk on the island and savor the views. From any point in Stockholm, this free walking tour takes about 2 to 2.5 hours and will show you the best of Djurgården island.
 Taylor McIntyre/TripSavvy
Enter the churches of Stockholm and enjoy the beautiful artwork inside. The following churches in Stockholm are worth visiting and, of course, offer free entry:
 Taylor McIntyre/TripSavvy
Even visiting a museum can be free in Stockholm. There's free admission at both the Moderna Museet (modern art and sculptures) and the Arkitekturmuseet (architecture and design). You'll find both of them next to the National Museum (which unfortunately isn't free) on the island of Skeppsholmen.
With the Swedish city card, you get free public transportation and free admission to countless attractions in Stockholm. The card pays for itself immediately.The Stockholm Card (Stockholmskortet in Swedish) includes free admission to over 75 museums and attractions, free boat tours, and discounts at hotels and restaurants. There are city cards for other Swedish cities such as Goteborg and Malmo.
With the SL Tourist Card you will get free public transportation through Greater Stockholm and free admission to the Grona Lund amusement park. You can purchase these cards online.
Your other option for "almost-free" transportation would be using Stockholm's CityBikes, the popular bicycle rental service ideal in good weather.
Långholmsbadet and Smedsuddsbadet are two swimming beaches right in Stockholm, so you don't even have to go anywhere. In the summer these are very popular beaches for sunbathers, especially on weekends. Go in the morning to get a good spot.
Kungstradgarden (known as Kungsan) is a popular destination for both summer and winter travelers. In winter, Stockholm offers a popular free activity—ice skating. From mid-November until March, with live music and warming refreshments, you can take your turn on the ice. In summer, Kungstradgarden is an outdoor venue offering free events such as concerts.
There are festivals and events happening year around. The best part about the many of these fun events is that they're completely free:
Moderna Museet (modern art museum) has a world-class collection of 20th and 21st-century art and photography. They offer free entry on Fridays after 6 p.m. The museum is located on the central island of Skeppsholmen.
You can see works by Pablo Picasso, Salvador Dalí, and Henri Matisse among many others. After enjoying the art, you can relax at the museum cafe.
Tobias Ackeborn / Getty Images
Södermalm (often shortened to Söder) is a trendy neighborhood, located both on the island of Södermalm and the surrounding areas. It's a hip place with vintage clothing boutiques, art galleries, bistros, and bars. There are also parks to stroll where you can relax and take in the views. The City Museum of Stockholm (re-opening in 2019) is also there.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
Stockholm's Old Town (Gamla Stan) is fun to explore on foot. It's the largest and best preserved medieval city center in Europe and is the site where Stockholm was established in 1252. The main streets like Västerlånggatan and Stora Nygatan are good to explore but don't miss walking the cobblestone streets of Mårten Trotzigs Gränd which is the narrowest alley in Stockholm. It's a great place to go shopping for souvenirs and handicrafts.
From Stockholm to Göteborg/Gothenburg, the distance isn't too far and the choices of transportation are many. Travelers in Sweden often wish to combine visits to both cities, which is a great idea if you have the time. But how do you get from one city to the other? Let's find out which transportation option fits you best when it comes to traveling from Stockholm to Göteborg (or back).
Quick, comfortable, and easy to book, the journey by train from Stockholm to Göteborg takes about 3.5 hours and can be quite scenic.
Riding the train from Stockholm to Göteborg is a popular option and comes with a reasonable price, starting at around 458 SEK ($53) for a one-way ticket on certain days of the week via RailEurope.com. The cheapest prices are available if you buy tickets in advance before you get to Stockholm or Göteborg.
Tip: RailEurope.com also gives additional discounts to travelers 25 and younger and 60 and older, and to groups of two to five people, along with instant e-ticketing and free reservations.
You can fly from Stockholm Arlanda Airport to Göteborg Landvetter Airport starting at around 547 SEK ($62) one way for a direct flight by SAS. You can also fly to Göteborg Landvetter from Stockholm Bromma Airport, which starts at around the same price:
Naturally, flight prices between Stockholm and Göteborg depend on factors such as time of year. The advantage of traveling between these cities by air is a quick flight time of only 55 minutes. Budget travelers might want to explore other options, though.
The 470-kilometer (292-mile) drive will take about five hours to get from Stockholm to Göteborg. From Stockholm, take E4 to Jönköping, and turn west onto Road 40 toward Göteborg. From Göteborg, take Route 40 to Jönköping and merge onto E4 toward Stockholm.
An alternative route between the cities of Stockholm and Göteborg is taking E20 to E18. This leads you further north, increasing your journey to 485 kilometers (301 miles), about a 5.5-hour drive.
There are several daily buses, such as Swebus Express, operating between Stockholm and Göteborg. For 200 SEK ($23) one way, taking the bus is a cheap option if you have the time. The bus between Stockholm and Göteborg takes about seven hours.
In Göteborg, you'll find the long-distance bus terminal (Nils Ericson Terminal) right behind the train station. In Stockholm, head to Swebus Express in the City Terminal (Cityterminalen).
If you don't mind taking an entire week of your trip to get from one city to another, you can take a cruise from Stockholm to Göteborg along the Göta Canal. Pricing per person can be more than $1,000, so unless you have a lot of time and a big budget, consider the other transportation options mentioned instead of taking a ferry.
The "in" place to stay in Sweden's capital is Nobis Hotel Stockholm. It is a lively, social, yet dignified hotel with a see-and-be-seen air. The Nobis has great-looking contemporary style and is a member of the Design Hotels association.
Nobis hotel opened in 2010 in the heart of Stockholm, Sweden. It is part of the Nobis Group, which operates several hotels and restaurants in Stockholm.
The hotel faces Norrmalmstorg Square in downtown Stockholm. This location is dead-center and extremely convenient.
The answer is probably yes if:• You're an early adopter and trendsetter who makes a point of staying in the coolest hotel in town• You work in a design field and/or just like design hotels• You love the convenience of having a terrific restaurant and bar right in your hotel• And you just love a hotel with a great buffet breakfast included in the room rate• You like social hotels with various options for lounging and meeting other travelers
The answer is probably no if:• You like traditionally decorated rather than modern rooms• You travel with a lot of clothing requiring more than Nobis Hotel's modest storage space
The hotel attracts a stylish crowd, both leisure and business travelers. By the looks of them, many Nobis Hotel guests are professionals in the arts, fashion, and entertainment.
The hotel's lobby, bar, restaurant, and stunning atrium lounge are vibrant with social life. In many ways, Nobis Hotel is an important-feeling, intensely social grand hotel.
Nobis Hotel's rooms, however, are blissfully quiet. They are modern and comfortable, with ultra-cushy beds and spa-like bathrooms that feature large, inviting tubs.
Nobis Hotel's buildings once housed a bank that was the scene of an infamous robbery in 1973. The event became known as Stockholm syndrome, in which the hostages came to identify with and side with the bank robbers.
Nobis Hotel occupies two connected buildings dating from the late 19th century.•Their handsome gabled exteriors are pristine, and the interiors were completely overhauled by a leading Stockholm design firm• Nobis Hotel interiors are contemporary, but a strong sense of history remains.
Nobis Hotel's 201 rooms are situated on six floors. Twenty-two deluxe rooms are 334 square feet, 10 one-room suites have 463 square feet and the grand Nobis Suite has 1055 square feet, with the potential to connect to two more rooms.
Rooms are soothingly decorated in a white with touches of nature's tones, in rich dark-wood armoire, and gray rugs. The hotel's design firm, Claesson Koivisto Rune, based the palette on Stockholm's gentle, subdued winter colors.
King beds, from the Swedish mattress-maker Dux, are firm and silkily dressed. A large flat-screen TV offers many stations, a computer screen, and an iPod/USB dock. The room safe can be confounding to use, but has electric sockets that charge your laptop.
The armoire closet has a hanging area but no drawers. There is no place to unpack clothing that cannot be hung up.• So you're forced to keep your clothes in your suitcase or strew them on the couch and chairs• Nobis Hotel does most things right, but this lack of dressers and drawers is one of the 12 hotel trends I cant stand
Bathrooms are clad in white Carrara marble. They feature a large tub with a spigot (but no shower).• The handsome yet completely impractical sink is covered by a sculptured tray, and cannot be filled or used for rinsing out laundry• Toiletries, by the Swedish Byredo brand, are starkly white, ultra-gentle, and fragrance-free
Wifi is free in guest rooms and the lobby• Bottled water is gratis, too• A sleek Mac desktop in a nook off the lobby serves as a guest computer.
Nobis Hotel is owned by a renowned Stockholm restaurateur, Stefano Catenacci. Dining is a high point here.
Guests (and locals) can choose from several dining options. These include Caina restaurant, which is pan-Italian; 24/7 Bistro, The Gold Bar and The Lounge. Nobis Hotel's Swedish buffet breakfast features Scandinavian specialties such as smoked fish and reindeer, fresh berry juice, creamy oatmeal, and strong coffee.
The Gold Bar features stylish cocktails concocted by a New York expat mixologist. The Lounge, which the hotel calls "Stockholm's new living room," is a busy meeting place set in an imposing atrium. Room service is 24 hours.
The fitness center at Nobis Hotel is free to guests. It is compact but fully equipped, with a white marble sauna area with a dry sauna and a steam sauna. The fitness center is daylight-lit and has views of the hotel's impressive interior atrium.
Spa treatments may be ordered in-room; treatment rooms are planned down the road.
Service at Nobis Hotel, Stockholm is provided by bright young men in trim, stylish suits. They are efficient, welcoming, and as warm as you have any right to expect in Scandinavia. Housekeeping is flawless, and public areas of Nobis Hotel are spotless.
Connect with Nobis Hotel Stockholm on its website, and for booking, visit the Nobis page in Design Hotels• On Facebook and on InstagramNobis HotelNorrmalmstorg 2-4111 86 Stockholm, Sweden
As is common in the travel industry, the Luxury Travel Expert was provided with a complimentary visit for the purpose of describing the hotel. For details, see our site's Ethics Policy.
The weather in Stockholm has several sides to it. Luckily, Stockholm is located on the protected southeast coast of Sweden, where the Baltic Sea meets Lake Mälaren. As such, Stockholm is shielded from the worst of the arctic weather by the mountains of Norway, so the weather here is more pleasant than foreigners imagine.
Stockholm receives more sun than many other European cities, including London and Paris. Summers typically average 68 to 77 degrees Fahrenheit (20 to 25 degrees Celsius), especially in July and August. Winters are usually cloudy with rain and snowfall. The average temperatures during winter range from 27 to 30 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 3 to minus 1 degrees Celsius).
On average, Stockholm receives around 170 days of precipitation, with much of it occurring in the fall and winter months. The city receives a mix of both snow and rain, with snow occurring primarily between December and March. The aurora borealis can occasionally be observed in Stockholm.
Fast Climate Facts
Sweden, overall, boasts very considerable snowfall amounts, especially in the northernmost regions where snow covers the ground in a thick blanket for up to six months. Stockholm's more southerly location makes it ideal for those wanting to avoid threatening winter weather. However, strong winter storms can still affect the city, shutting down public transportation and delaying plane flights. Still, if you want to see snow in Stockholm (where storms move in and out quickly and snow sticks around for only a few days) the chance is good in winter. 
Spring in Stockholm sees gradually longer days and warming temperatures. While there's very little rain, springtime snow is still a possibility. In March and April, there's very little temperature variation, but by May, temperatures are usually extremely pleasant, topping out in the mid-50s or low-60s.
What to pack: There may still be snow during spring, so pack accordingly. Bring waterproof shoes and a good jacket. 
Average Temperatures by Month
March: 37 F (3 C) / 27 F (-3 C)
April: 48 F (9 C) / 34 F (1 C)
May: 61 F (16 C) / 41 F (6 C)
Summers in Stockholm are reasonably sunny with perfect weather conditions for sightseeing and open-air activities. The average maximum temperature in July is a pleasant 68 degrees Fahrenheit (20 degrees Celsius) in the south but can reach scorching heights of 86 F (30 C).
A typical summer night will be spent outdoors drenched in sunshine. During midsummer in Stockholm, you can expect daylight to last more than 18 hours, as opposed to a bleak six hours in the heart of winter.
The most popular time to visit Stockholm is undisputedly in summer when the weather is mild and warm and the locals take to the streets. Going for a swim in the middle of the city is a special treat, along with island hopping trips. Needless to point out though, the time of year will determine how you will experience Sweden and the capital.
What to pack: Pack your bathing suit, as well as shorts, sandals, T-shirts, skirts, and good walking shoes.
Average Temperatures by Month
June: 70 F (21 C) / 52 F (11 C)
July: 72 F (22 C) / 55 F (13 C)
August: 68 F (20 C) / 55 F (13 C)
Many locals will argue that the best time to visit is during late spring and early autumn when the weather in Sweden is mild, the light soft, and tourists are few and far between. You can expect average temperatures of 55 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit (13 to 16 degrees Fahrenheit) and approximately nine hours of sunlight.
What to pack: Fall is Stockholm's rainiest season of the year, so be sure to carry an umbrella or a good waterproof jacket. You'll also want some warm sweaters and clothing that can be layered.
Average Temperatures by Month
September: 59 F (15 C) / 48 F (9 C)
October: 50 F (10 C) / 41 F (5 C)
November: 41 F (5 C) / 34 F (1 C)
The harsh Scandinavian winter will last from October to April, depending on the region you find yourself in. The winters in the south are milder and much more bearable. Temperatures will range from 23 to 35 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 5 to 2 degrees Celsius), but have been known to drop below 5 F (minus 15 C). The lowest temperature for Sweden was recorded 100 years ago when temperatures reached a mind-numbing minus 23 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 31 degrees Celsius). However, it has not dropped below minus 13 degrees Fahrenheit since that record. Snowfall usually occurs in December, and the north will experience some serious snow-rich winters with depths around 40 centimeters. The far south, on the other hand, can only expect rain.
Winter travel is somewhat restricted in certain areas, and the smaller towns go into a hibernation-like state. However, don't knock the Stockholm winter. It definitely has a certain charm to it as the city is turned into a picturesque fairytale town. Go skating on the frozen lakes and waterways, and best of all, experience the Christmas cheer that is so unique to Scandinavia.
Remember, Swedes themselves enjoy a good holiday, and the entire city can shut down for a couple of days over Christmas and midsummer, so keep that in mind when planning your trip. 
What to pack: Regarding clothing, light to medium weight articles will do just fine for summer months, but for those traveling from countries closer to the equator, bring proper heavyweight jackets and coats for winter. Packing a raincoat is also well advised, regardless of the time of year you travel.
Average Temperatures by Month
December: 34 F (1 C) / 27 F (-3 C)
January: 30 F (-1 C) / 23 F (-5 C)
February: 30 F (-1 C) / 23 F (-5 C)
North of the Arctic Circle, the sun barely sets in summer, and night seems unending in winter. This phenomenon creates what is known as Midnight Sun and Polar Nights. During the time of Midnight Sun, you can often see the sun at midnight and, most definitely, will experience daytime light all night long. So, draw your blackout curtains should you need some shut-eye. During Polar Nights, conversely, nighttime skies exist even in the daytime, making indoor lighting a must and flashlights and headlamps a necessity for getting around outside. 
The best day trips from Stockholm for visitors are the ones that fit well with your trip. One size does not fit all. The following ideas for day trips from Stockholm cover the interesting history and charming cities, while some day trip ideas simply offer a relaxing day in southern Sweden.
The romantic town of Gävle, Sweden, is only about 100 miles north of Stockholm which makes Gävle one of the best day trips from Stockholm. The town offers attractions, shopping, art, and Sweden's best chocolate! When it comes to Gävle's natural beauty, the rivers of Gavilan and Testeboan bring life to this quaint city on ​Sweden's east coast.
The island of Gotland, Sweden, is found off the east coast of Sweden, about 125 mi (200 km) south of Stockholm. You can get to Gotland from Stockholm by car and ferry, or by air. Gotland is famous for its long sandy beaches since the island is one of Sweden's best beach destinations. Then there's bicycling and hiking, 94 beautiful medieval churches, and the town of Visby, a UNESCO World Heritage site.
Yes, you can plan a day trip from Stockholm to the Finnish capital Helsinki. Just don't plan on taking the 16-hour ferry, instead use one of the 1-hour flights across the Baltic Sea to turn it into a quick hop across the sea. Helsinki is a very beautiful and interesting city and is definitely worth a visit, if only for a day or two!
Uppsala is an interesting city with lots of historic buildings, romantic little cafes, and vibrant nightlife. To get from Stockholm to Uppsala (or from Uppsala back to Stockholm), most take the twice-hourly train from Stockholm. Make sure to see Uppsala Cathedral and Uppsala Castle, as well as the pre-Viking, prehistoric burial mounds in the old part of the town.
Ski resorts in Sweden aren't hard to find, but there are a few that are outstanding and offer a great wintry experience. During the summer, they offer hiking, cycling, and various outdoor sports. Check the Swedish weather before you visit one of these ski resorts in Sweden. It's at least a ​4.5-hour drive though - depending on which one you want to visit - so you might want to start your day trip early in the morning, or plan to stay overnight.
To be able to fit the city of Malmö into a day trip from Stockholm, you'll have to fly there, which only takes an hour and is quite affordable. (Driving takes six hours.) Just pick 2-3 of the attractions in Malmö for your day there, and you'll be all set for a great day trip.
A day trip from Stockholm to Göteborg also requires air travel due to the distance involved. But it's easy. Just hop from Stockholm to Göteborg on one of the many 55-minute flights each day.
One of the best day trips from Stockholm if you want to relax a little and enjoy a little boat tour. Many visitors believe that the Gota Canal leads directly from Stockholm to Gothenburg. This is not true - the Göta Canal ends at the town of Mem, almost 150 mi (240 km) south of Stockholm. Drive south on the E4 for just about two hours and you'll be at the beautiful Göta Canal. Bring your camera.
There are several types of transportation you can use to travel between Stockholm, Sweden, and Oslo, Norway. Each transportation option has pros and cons. Here is a closer look to help you figure out which way of getting from Stockholm to Oslo fits you best, depending on your budget, your timeline and how much sightseeing you want to do. Some options are also better for families with children. 
A walking tour of Djurgarden is a must for any visitor coming to Stockholm during the warmer months of the year. It's free, it's adjustable to your speed and interests, and you can stop at any time for snacks and refreshments. If you are planning on completing the walking tour as noted, please plan two hours for it.
Stockholm's Djurgården (english: Game Park) is an island right in the middle of Stockholm, known for its beautiful green spaces, many sights, events, parks, and tourist attractions. Stockholm consists of a number of islands that are linked together by bridges. The island Djurgården is a cultural center and lushly wooded park to which Stockholmers have been flocking for centuries.
The island has more than 10 million visitors each year. The location is perfect for a wonderful walking tour, and also offers other great Things To Do in Stockholm.
How do you get started with this tour? For this interesting 2 - 2 1/2 hour walking tour on Djurgården, the starting point is easy to reach: Simply take the Djurgården tram from wherever you are in Stockholm. It will take you directly to Djurgården. Enjoy a ride on one of these old trams (built 1920 - 1950!) as it works its way towards Djurgården island. The timetable may vary slightly but the trams are usually scheduled to go every 12 minutes.
The old-fashioned veteran-style trams are driven by enthusiastic members of the Swedish tram association. It is also possible to reach Djurgården by taking the bus, number 44 or 47, but much less romantic!
From the Stockholm city areas Östermalm and Strandvägen, where you can get off the tram, you will reach the island of Djurgården via the bridge Djurgårdsbron. It was built in 1897 and the decoration shows sculptured old gods and beautiful cast iron railings.
Anyone who has ever taken a walk over the bridge into Djurgården knows how quickly the atmosphere changes from Stockholm's busy city life to serene Scandinavian nature and relaxed fun times. Take your time crossing the bridge as we continue our walking tour...
Click below to get to the next step of the tour or go here: Step 3: Visiting Galärparken & Djurgardsstaden
Turn right after Djurgårdsbron and you will be in the park Galärparken. In the park you will find some of the foremost attractions in Stockholm including Junibacken. In connection with the church in Galärparken you can visit a monument honoring the victims of the Estonia catastrophe in September 1994.
Let's continue the walking tour by passing the Liljevalchs Art Gallery, Aquaria Water Museum, the theme park Grona Lund and the world famous Skansen Open Air Museum, many of which are on the list of the top 10 things to do in Stockholm.
Now you will start to see Djurgårdsstaden (the city of Djurgården) behind Grona Lund. Historic wooden buildings from the 18th century still stand here and have been modernized and converted into private residences.
Click below to get to the next step of the tour or go here: Step 4: The Rosendal Palace & Garden
After visiting Djurgardsstaden, start walking east towards Bellmansro; then turn north towards the Rosendal Palace and its impressive garden. A few minutes' walk later, you will enter the Rosendal grounds.
Rosendal Palace was built in the 1820s for King Karl XIV Johan, the first Bernadotte. Rosendal was originally a summertime pleasure retreat. It has never been a residence in the modern sense of the word. It was merely intended as an escape from the formalities of court life at the Royal Palace. The gardens are a center for biodynamic cultivation offering courses and lectures on the same topic.
Snacks and drinks are served in the popular terrace cafe and the terrace is a great opportunity to sit down and conclude your walking tour with a coffee or two. Afterwards, you can take the Djursgarden tram back to your starting point.
You can go back to the start of this tour here: Walking Tour On Djurgarden - Step 1 or view the best Things To Do in Stockholm for more ideas for your vacation.
If you prefer guided tours, take a look at the Best Guided Tours in Stockholm.
Stockholm is a beautiful Scandinavian city, coping with heaps of visitors who are enthralled with it regardless of the weather. They appreciate the fact that whatever season you visit Stockholm in, there is always something spectacular to see and do. It is wise to plan ahead for your trip and know what to pack for Stockholm so that you are not caught off guard when you are there. The key is ​balance; the season will dictate the type of clothes you pack, with one or two opposite-season items for surprises by the local weather.
You don't want to have to rush out to buy clothes in Stockholm, bearing in mind the exchange rate and that Sweden also enjoys a high cost of living. There is so much to see and do in Stockholm that you will want to be well prepared to be comfortable while visiting their trendy bars and restaurants, their museums, markets and natural wonders.
Practical items to include - for both men and women - are things like sunglasses, hats, and belts. Of course, if you are on a budget and have a goes-with-everything item, pack in one statement piece like a trendy leather jacket that can be worn with a number of outfits in different ways.
It doesn't help to tell holiday-makers looking to plan a getaway to Stockholm that the city is somewhat protected from the worst of arctic weather by the mountains of Norway because it can get chilly even in their summer time. Winter can certainly be a magical time for visitors to Stockholm. What to pack for Stockholm Winters will certainly require you packing in gloves, long johns, scarves, jackets, and boots, bearing in mind that you make sure there is enough space in your boots for a pair of thick woolen socks.
Fortunately, when you book a trip to Stockholm, there are plenty of destination guides and travel tips on places to visit during your stay as well as the kind of weather you can expect in order to pack appropriately.
You see so many Swedes walking around with a light bag or rucksack with them, they are always prepared for different kinds of weather throughout the day. Swedes are always prepared for a sudden downpour, so when you go out, make sure you pack in your raincoat or you put in one of those small fold-up umbrellas for your bag.
The summer months are by far the most popular time to visit Stockholm and to also know what to pack for Stockholm. Here, the typical summer falls between June and September, and this is a wonderful time to visit Stockholm because of the lighthearted atmosphere which prevails in the city. The long dark winter months are past, everybody's spirits are uplifted, and the Swedes emerge to take full advantage of their short summer and to lap up every bit of sunshine that they can.
You can even enjoy some swimming during these months, so it is important to pack your bathing suit. Because of all the outdoor activities; the island hopping, the sports events and outdoor concerts, you will need to pack in shorts, sandals, t-shirts and skirts, chinos, jeans, strong walking shoes as well as a pair of smart shoes.
Knowing what to pack for Stockholm for your getaway can get a bit tricky because the weather isn't just straightforward here; you can experience sudden changes in the weather. Temperatures in the summer are more or less set at 14 to 15 degrees, rising to 20 or a little more during the day, but you need to be prepared for a chilly wind. Pack a light jacket for layering.
The different seasons in Stockholm each have their own magic, but with careful planning and research, you can pack simply - but adequately - for a marvelous and organized holiday.

Our editors independently research, test, and recommend the best products and services; you can learn more about our review process here. We may receive commissions on purchases made from our chosen links.

Best Overall: Lydmar Hotel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"It charms with wooden floors, a warm natural color scheme and knowledgeable, welcoming staff."
Best Budget: Motel L — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"A buffet breakfast is served each morning - and if you book directly via the hotel website, it’s free."
Best Boutique: Hotel Skeppsholmen — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Eco-friendly Skeppsholmen is a beacon of contemporary elegance, with minimalist interiors and 78 individual rooms and suites."
Best for Families: Hotel Rival — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"All rooms keep kids well entertained with free Wi-Fi, a Smart TV, a DVD and CD library and a little stuffed bear hidden somewhere inside."
Best for Romance: Ett Hem — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"For a truly special stay, request a Junior Suite with a four-poster bed and a marble bathroom."
Best Luxury: Grand Hôtel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Spend delightful days in the saunas and pools at Nordic Spa & Fitness or sipping champagne at Cadier Bar."
Best for Nightlife: Story Hotel Riddargatan — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"From the bar, expect expert mixologists and regular live music and DJ events."
Best Business: Radisson Blu Royal Viking Hotel, Stockholm — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Choose a Business Class Room for corporate perks such as daily newspaper delivery, free high-speed Wi-Fi and a Nespresso coffee machine."
Best Hostel: City Backpackers Hostel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Breakfast is served every morning, while the communal kitchen promises free pasta."
Courtesy of Lydmar Hotel
Ranked as Stockholm’s best hotel on TripAdvisor, five-star Lydmar Hotel is centrally located in vibrant Norrmalm. From here, you can walk to the Royal Swedish Opera or to beautiful Kungsträdgården park in a matter of minutes. Inside, the hotel is refreshingly simple. Contemporary, but never cold, it charms with wooden floors, a warm natural color scheme and knowledgeable, welcoming staff. No matter which room you choose, you’ll benefit from a King bed fitted with luxury linens, a cozy sitting area and free Wi-Fi.
Breakfast is included, and can be enjoyed in your room or in the The Dining Room. Throughout the rest of the day, the latter serves a tempting array of classic French and traditional Swedish dishes. Alternatively, dine outside on The Terrace or The Patio, two al fresco spots designed for evening apéritifs. Both venues host occasional concerts and club nights. When you feel like a workout, head next door to the Grand Hôtel, where you can use the fitness center, pool and spa at no additional cost.
Courtesy of Motel L
Motel L is located slightly south of the action in Hammarby Sjöstad. However, nearby Mårtensdal tram connects to the city center in just 15 minutes, while the hotel itself is a boldly designed gem. Built in 2014, the rooms offer style, comfort and quietude, not to mention an incredibly wallet-friendly price tag. Highlights include a rainforest shower in the ensuite bathroom, a 40” TV and a comfortable bed designed by Swedish manufacturer Carpe Diem.
A buffet breakfast is served each morning - and if you book directly via the hotel website, it’s free (saving you precious pennies that can be better spent exploring the city). Free Wi-Fi also adds to Motel L’s value. There’s an a la carte restaurant on-site, as well as several other dining options nearby. After a full day’s sightseeing, unwind with a workout in the gym or with a drink at the lively lobby bar. Other perks range from on-site parking to a 24-hour reception.
Courtesy of Hotel Skeppsholmen
The only hotel on the tiny island of Skeppsholmen, Hotel Skeppsholmen offers a truly exclusive experience within a few minutes’ walk of Moderna Museet art gallery. The hotel’s custard yellow buildings date back to 1699 and acted in a previous life as a hospice and later, as military storage. Today, eco-friendly Skeppsholmen is a beacon of contemporary elegance, with minimalist interiors and 78 individual rooms and suites.
Even the smallest rooms feature a flat-screen TV, free high-speed Wi-Fi, a minibar and a novelty illuminated shower. Breakfast is included, while Långa Raden restaurant is known for its simple, delicious Swedish cuisine. In the summer, you can dine amidst the tranquil greenery of the garden. Alternatively, room service is available around the clock. Spend your afternoons on the waterfront tennis court or engaging in garden yoga during the warmer months.
Courtesy of Hotel Rival  
Surrounded by scenic parks on bohemian Södermalm island, Hotel Rival offers the perfect setting for idyllic family holidays in Stockholm. Older kids will love the hotel’s bold, rockstar-like design. The 700-seat theater hosts regular plays, dance showcases and concerts - the perfect way to spend a fun-filled family evening. Extra beds or cribs can be added to several room categories, while connecting rooms are available for larger families.
All rooms keep kids well entertained with free Wi-Fi, a Smart TV,  a DVD and CD library and a little stuffed bear hidden somewhere inside. Playstation 3 and Wii can be rented from reception. Breakfast is included, while laid-back Café Rival serves youthful favorites ranging from pancakes and Swedish pastries to grilled cheese sandwiches. After the kids have gone to bed, you’re free to explore Hotel Rival’s lively bar scene.
Courtesy of Ett Hem
Located north of the city center in an upscale residential neighborhood, Arts and Crafts townhouse Ett Hem offers a quiet, intimate haven for couples. Filled with antiques, the house was built as a private residence in 1910 and still feels a lot like home. There are just 12 rooms and suites, all equipped for romance with a minibar, a selection of books and a TV with surround sound.
For a truly special stay, request a Junior Suite with a four-poster bed and a marble bathroom. Some set the scene with a fireplace or balcony as well. The complimentary breakfast is made from the freshest seasonal produce. Later, you can order food to be eaten when and where you like. Treat your loved one to dinner and champagne in the library, in the greenhouse or in the blissful courtyard garden. 
Courtesy of Grand Hotel
Five-star icon the Grand Hôtel offers the best of both worlds with a modern Norrmalm location that overlooks historic Gamla Stan. It has hosted Stockholm’s most distinguished visitors since 1874 and still retains its old-world charm today. All rooms and suites include a Smart TV, a plush armchair and luxury Acqua di Parma toiletries, but none can compare with the top-floor Princess Lillian Suite.
Covering 3,875 square feet, it includes a library, a kitchen, a spa area and an in-suite cinema, not to mention a living room complete with a grand piano. Spend delightful days in the saunas and pools at Nordic Spa & Fitness or sipping champagne at Cadier Bar. Dining options include Veranda (known for its classic Swedish cuisine), as well as Mathias Dahlgren’s Michelin-starred restaurant Matbaren.
Courtesy of Story Hotel Riddargatan
Story Hotel Riddargatan is ideally located for exploring Östermalm’s fashionable nightlife scene. With the edgy atmosphere of an underground club, this boutique art hotel is much loved by Stockholm’s young, hip crowd. From the bar, expect expert mixologists and regular live music and DJ events. After a late night, catch up on sleep in your room or suite - all of which include a walk-in shower or bath, free Wi-Fi, an LCD TV and a comfortable pillow-topped bed. Some have balconies - the perfect spot for evening pre-drinks. Ling Long restaurant serves breakfast until midday on weekends, allowing you the luxury of sleeping in late. Throughout the rest of the day, the restaurant specializes in vegan Asian small plates.
Courtesy of Radisson Blu Royal Viking Hotel 
Four-star Radisson Blu Royal Viking Hotel enjoys a convenient city center location and excellent transport links courtesy of next-door Stockholm Central Station. There are 13 meeting rooms, while the dedicated meeting planner can arrange catering, decor and tech equipment. Choose a Business Class Room for corporate perks such as daily newspaper delivery, free high-speed Wi-Fi and a Nespresso coffee machine (a must for early mornings). Breakfast is included in this room category, while Stockholm Fisk Restaurant tempts with seafood and fine wines. Unwind in the fitness center or indoor pool, then celebrate a new business deal with drinks in the 9th-floor SKYBAR.
Courtesy of City Backpackers Hostel
The main attractions of Norrmalm and Gamla Stan are easily accessible from central City Backpackers Hostel. Save costs by staying in a dorm room (either mixed or ladies-only) or opt for a private room instead. Friends traveling together can also book special private apartments. Breakfast is served every morning, while the communal kitchen promises free pasta. The lounge is a great place to swap stories with fellow backpackers or to surf the free Wi-Fi; and if you get peckish, you’ll find sustenance at next-door Nomad Swedish Food & Bar. Other useful perks include tour booking and laundry facilities.
Hopping from one island to another using public transportation in Stockholm requires a fairly intricate public transportation network. Luckily, the Swedes have greatly simplified the system and accommodate all types of visitors the city receives year-round.
The Swedish language can make the system difficult to interpret at times, but staff are very helpful (if asked) and have an impressive command of English. Though much of the city is contained within reasonable walking distance, seeing many attractions will usually require a short ride on the metro. There are also a few lesser-known ways of getting around the city, which can save some kronor and reveal parts of the city which might otherwise go unseen.
From the heart of the city to deep into the suburbs, the public transportation network, Stockholms Lokaltrafik (SL), is the most common way to get around. This consists of the metro, bus, commuter train networks, and even several ferries. Their website, sl.se, can be an invaluable resource in getting around via the journey planner (English-translated version), which will guide you as to which bus or train to take and when. The journey planner is also custom designed for smartphones.
Three main metro lines (red, blue and green) serve the entire region around Stockholm, all running north to south. These lines all travel through Stockholm’s central station “T-Centralen” and transfer to one another at different points marked on the system map, visible within each metro car.
Buses are more necessary on the city perimeter and into the suburbs. Though those up late on a weeknight might require the use of a night bus, as the metro stations will be closed from roughly 1:00-5:30 am Sun-Thur.
All trains and buses are made accessible for strollers and the handicapped through a large number of ramps and elevators. Audio announcements are also available at subway stations for the hearing impaired.
Often the easiest and best value option for visitors is the SL Access card, which allows unlimited rides in the entire Stockholm region, to and from the airport and even ferry rides to the large park Djurgården. These can be purchased at various SL Centers, which are located throughout the city, at the central station and even at Sky City at Arlanda Airport. Ticket prices range from 115 SEK for 24 hours to 790 SEK for 30 days, and various durations are available.
The SL card itself also costs 20 SEK (but can be reused in the future). These tickets are also all available for roughly 40% off for those under 20 or over 65. Children under 7 travel for free with an adult, while up to 6 children from ages 7-11 can travel for free during weekends when accompanied by someone older than 18.
For those just passing through Stockholm or planning on the limited use of the metro, single tickets can be bought for 36 SEK (within one zone – longer trips will cost slightly more) which allow free rides for 1 hour. These can also be purchased at Presbyrån stores for a reduced price. Also, a roll of 9 tickets can be bought for 200 SEK, an equivalent cost of 22 SEK per trip. Under-20 and over-65 discounts also apply. Note that tickets are not for sale on the bus!
Train services to Stockholm will arrive at the central station T-Centralen, allowing immediate access to the SL system. If arriving from Arlanda Airport, there are a number of trains and buses to choose from via the Arlanda website. If you are planning to use the SL card later in Stockholm, the card can be purchased at Sky City, allowing a ride to Stockholm at no extra cost via bus 583 to Märsta, then taking the commuter train to Stockholm. This takes roughly an hour to the central station. The same ride can be done towards the airport.
Last and certainly not least, Stockholm is incredibly bike-friendly and can be a spectacular way to see the city in the warmer months. Citybikes has a rental system set up from Apr-Oct, where bikes can be used for several hours a day and exchanged at one of the 90+ stations around the city. A 3-day card is only 165 SEK while a 250 SEK card is good for the entire season. The many bike lanes around the city allow for safe, fairly casual rides away from congested traffic.
