Strasbourg is the economic and intellectual capital of Alsace. It’s built around its famous cathedral and is also known as one of the three ‘capitals’ of Europe as the European Parliament and the European Council are both located here. It’s a lovely city with interesting attractions and things to do and is particularly famous for its ancient and vibrant Christmas Market.
TGV trains to Strasbourg leave from  Gare de l’est in Paris (Place du 11 Novembre, Paris 10th arrondissement) all through the day. The journey takes 45 minutes.
There are 16 daily return TGV trains between Paris and Strasbourg, taking 2 hours 20 mins. Strasbourg Station is the second busiest train station in France, and is the hub for eastern France and for journeys into Germany and Switzerland with 50 TGV departures daily to all destinations. There is a tourist information desk within the station which is located at 20 place de la Gare, less than a 10-minute walk from the city center.
Other popular connecting destinations include Colmar (from 39 mins) Lille (from 3 hours 20 mins), Montpellier (from 5 hours 49 mins) Marseille (6 hours 20 mins).
Popular destinations include Nantes (5 hrs 10 mins); Rennes (5 hrs 15 mins); Avignon (5 hrs 55 mins); Bordeaux (6 hrs 45 mins) and to Stuttgart (1 hr 20 mins); Munich (3 hrs 40 mins); and Zurich (2 hrs 5 mins).
To book train travel in France:
Strasbourg-Entzheim International Airport is just 6 miles (10 km) from Strasbourg town center via the motorway. There’s a covered pedestrian footbridge that connects the airport with the shuttle train stations. Up to 4 shuttle trains per hour run to Strasbourg station in less than 10 minutes.
The airport flies to over 200 destinations, to all major French cities and to other European destinations such as Amsterdam, Barcelona, Venice, Prague, and London. For international flights, you will have to change in Europe, with Frankfurt being a typical transfer airport.
The distance from Paris to Strasbourg is around 488 km (303 miles), and the journey takes around 4 hours 30 minutes depending on your speed. There are tolls on the Autoroutes.
For information on hiring a car under the leaseback scheme, which is the most economical way of hiring a car if you’re in France for more than 17 days, try  Renault Eurodrive Buy Back Lease.
  Paris to Strasbourg by Train  
  Transport Links to Gare de l'Est  
  Connections to Strasbourg by TGV  
  Connections With TER High-Speed Trains  
  By Plane  
  Destinations to and From Strasbourg Airport  
  Paris to Strasbourg by Car  
  Getting From London to Paris  
MetroLigne 4: Porte de Clignancourt to Porte d’OrleansLigne 5: Bobigny-Pablo Picasso to Port d’ItalieLigne 7: La Coureuve 8 Mai 1945 to Ville Juif to Louis Aragon
For buses, see the Paris Bus map
From the US, book on Rail Europe
From the UK, book with voyages-sncf (Originally Rail Europe UK)
By train (Eurostar): The total journey time, with a change in Paris from London to Strasbourg by train, is 4 hrs 32 mins.
By bus/coach: Eurolines offers a cheap service from London, Gillingham, Canterbury, Folkestone and Dover to Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport and Paris Gallieni. Six coaches a day; 2 overnight; journey time is 7 hours. The Eurolines stop is at the Paris Gallieni Coach Station, 28 ave du General de Gaulle, just by the Gallieni metro station near the Porte de Bagnolet (Metro line 3, final stop).
IDBus also operates between London and Lille and London and Paris. IDBus also goes from Lille to Amsterdam and Brussels.
