If you made a list of the most civilized cities in the world, Vienna would be at or near the top. As Austria's capital, and before that the seat of the all-powerful Austro-Hungarian Empire, Vienna is a bastion of refinement. This city is an epicenter of classical music, modern design, and café culture. Here you will find unimaginably elegant Baroque and Classical palaces, many of which have been transformed into the luxury hotels profiled in this article.
Coffee and Culture from Vienna on the Danube.Vienna is a highlight of any Danube River cruise in Europe. River ships from all the major river cruise lines including AMAWaterways, Avalon, Grand Circle, Tauck, Uniworld, and Viking all have Danube River cruises with stopovers in Vienna.
Prior to World War I, Vienna was the capital of the powerful Habsburg Empire. Today Vienna's glory is in her past, but the city is still a marvelous place to visit. Most of the grand palaces and buildings are from the 17th century, but they have been well-preserved or substantially renovated. River ship passengers spend the day in Vienna, touring via bus, subway, and on foot. In the evening, a wonderful concert in one of the old palaces is usually available as an optional excursion. Be sure to take time to enjoy a Viennese coffee house and some of the city's highlights in your free time.
Belvedere Palace has a magnificent view of the rest of Vienna and is a good place to start your tour of Vienna.Belvedere Palace was the home of Price Eugene of Savoy, who conquered the Turks. The palace is an art museum today and has beautiful grounds.
The 400-foot steeple in the distance is St. Stephan's Cathedral in old town Vienna. No other tall buildings are allowed nearby.A closer look at St. Stephan's Cathedral from Belvedere Palace.
The Vienna Opera House has almost 300 shows per year, and the opera schedule varies each day. It's a busy place! If you just want a peek at an opera, the Vienna Opera House has standing room tickets available 80 minutes before show time.
The church square surrounding St. Stephan's is quite lively, with lots of vendors. It is a fun place to people watch or as a meeting place for tour groups.
Vienna's location on the Danube made it a travel hub during the seventeenth century. However, river ships brought plague-bearing rats. In addition, the city did not have an effective way of disposing of garbage, which exacerbated the situation.
Schonbrunn was the Hapsburg's summer residence. It has over 1400 rooms, of which 40 are open to the public. The exterior is baroque, and the interior is rococco. Schonbrunn is a great example of how the royals lived in the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries. The Palace and Gardens of Schonbrunn became a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1996.
It's a good thing that Vienna is a walking city, because Viennese pastries are the equal of anything the French come up with. Repeat visitors say that the best thing to do here is to relax in an elegant coffeehouse and marvel at what Vienna has given the world: for a few, Sacher tortes and apple strudels, the Vienna Philharmonic, and psychoanalysis, thanks to Viennese doctor Sigmund Freud.
Park Hyatt Vienna embodies the definition of a five-star luxury hotel. Though it is set in a palatial building and every luxury is provided, what really makes this hotel special is the impeccable service.
Park Hyatt's principal restaurant, The Bank Brasserie & Bar, is set in the handsome marbled atrium of a former bank. It offers an acclaimed breakfast buffet plus lunch and dinner. The hotel's Café Am Hof serves coffeehouse specialties, while The Lounge, open till the wee hours, is an intimate space for tea, pastries, light dinners, and luscious Austrian wine or French Champagne. The Living Room is a brawnier bar focused on spirits like Scotch and Cognac.
The Ritz-Carlton luxury hotel name is beloved by upscale American luxury travelers, and The Ritz-Carlton, Vienna is a popular choice of upscale Statesiders visiting Vienna.
This hotel opened in 2012, but its history goes back much farther. It is composed of four Viennese palaces built between 1865 and 1871, during the height of the Habsburg royal dynasty's Austro-Hungarian Empire. The palaces were constructed in historic styles including moody Gothic and sparkling Baroque. All four are set on Vienna's famed Ringstrasse boulevard, which marks the original city walls as built by Emperor Franz Joseph. To this day, Ringstrasse is the top place to stroll around this capital city.
The Ritz-Carlton, Vienna offers  202 spacious guest rooms and 43 suites dripping in character and flaunting luscious views of Vienna. The pick, as at any Ritz-Carlton hotel, is a room with Club Lounge privileges and perks. The danger when staying in a Ritz-Carlton club floor is that the lounge is so welcoming and delicious, you have to force yourself to leave the hotel and explore your destination.
Amenities for all guests at this hotel are extensive. The fitness center is state-of-the-art and offers a 60-foot indoor pool with relaxing Viennese classical music inside the pool to sweeten your lap swimming. The Ritz-Carlton Spa is an oasis of beauty and wellness; see the spa treatment menu. Guests' pets get to enjoy the hotel too, at a price of 40 Euros per day, as of 2019.
The Ritz-Carlton, Vienna's Dstrikt Steakhouse is one of Vienna's very best places for a beef dinner enhanced by Austrian wines and bars; see its menus here. No fewer than three bars at the hotel comprise Pastamara (serving Sicilian inspired cocktails and menu items) ; Atmosphere Rooftop Bar (known for its views and its Midnight in Vienna cocktail); and the clubby, cozy D-Bar.
Hotel Sacher Wien is one of Vienna's legends. It fits the very definition of a grand hotel, with a dead-center location across from the State Opera, a classic look, gracious service, a lobby that seems to be a center of local social life.
In short, the grand hotel is a legend, and Hotel Sacher Wien, opened in 1876, is rife with legend and lore. Its portrait gallery, the Sacher Bilderkabinett, is a picture gallery with photos of the famous personalities who have relished a stay at the hotel or a slice of its famous Sacher-Torte chocolate cake, an exquisite Viennese pastry.
This is a hotel whose history and traditions shape a guest's stay. From the entry-level Superior rooms upwards, all 149 accommodations are impeccably elegant and high-tech besides, with a bathroom TV built into the mirror. On-property amenities are many The gym is open 24 hours and offers guests free use of the Finnish sauna, salt steam room, and herbal baths. The Sacher Boutique Spa is full-service and features Switzerland's La Prairie products and chocolate-based treatments. Young guests are welcomed to the hotel and invited to meet other budding travelers at the Sacher Kids club.
Many Hotel Sacher guests see no need to venture beyond the hotel for refined Viennese dining and lounging. Restaurant Anna Sacher, set in a magnificent 18000s parlor, serves traditional Austrian cuisine with modern seasonings in a magnificent 180oos room. The restaurant is known for its tasting menus of four, five or six courses served with sommelier-chosen wines. The "Blind Date" menu leaves the ordering to the chef.
The hotel's Blaue Bar, a cozy lounge accented by rich shades of sapphire, recalls the Vienna of a century ago. (It is open from 10 a.m. until 2 a.m.)
Café Sacher Wien is a time-honored and locally famous Viennese coffeehouse with a dog-friendly sidewalk section. Here, guests treat themselves to a slice of Sacher-Torte and understand the soul of this fabled capital city.
Courtesy of Palais Coburg Hotel Residenz
Palais Coburg Hotel Residenz is impressive. It is set in a splendid white stone palace that was built in the 1840s for a prince. Today it is one of Vienna's most refined hotels, offering only suites, and just 33 of them. Each is furnished with Viennese antiques and is named for a member of the Saxe-Coburg and Gotha royal family of Austria. The top-of-the-line Coburg Suites range from around 1,450 to 1,800 square feet.
The hotel's Silvio Nickol restaurant is named for its chef, one of Austria's culinary stars. It serves tasting menus exclusively. The menus range from five to nine courses that range from 233 to 299 Euros per diner, with wine pairings. Oenophiles: Silvio Nickol's wine list is a sight to behold, and the hotel draws intrepid oenophiles from around the world.The restaurant offers six different Wine Experiences that will make you a believer in Austrian wine and the Viennese wine scene.
Courtesy of Palais Hansen Kempinski 
Kempinski is Europe's oldest luxury hotel brand, founded in 1897 in Berlin. The Palais Hansen Kempinski resides in a glorious heritage building from the same era. It is set on a legendary Viennese street, the Ringstrasse. In times past, upper-crust Viennese and visitors would stroll the boulevard, showing off their finery and nodding at acquaintances. Ringstrasse is still a destination street for the fashionable, offering trendy boutiques and lively establishments. Now, as in the past, café culture thrives on Ringstrasse, celebrating famous Viennese coffee and pastries.
Palais Hansen Kempinski offers 98 rooms and 54 suites including Vienna's largest Presidential Suite, with 3,450 square feet. Rooms have a genteel and soothing 1920s look and super-high-tech amenities; guests can customize their stay with the help of an in-room iPad.
Dining is just as modern at Die Küche ("The Kitchen"), the hotel's main restaurant. The menu changes frequently, and its Pop-Up Cooking program features a different global cuisine monthly. Die Küche diners can opt for interactive cooking stations and winemaker dinners. The hotel's Edvard restaurant, spotlighting market-fresh cuisine, is honored with a Michelin star.
Palais Hansen Kempinski's inviting Lobby Lounge & Bar is one of Vienna's most popular places to meet with friends to enjoy Viennese pastries and coffee, British-style afternoon tea, and custom tea blends. The hotel's Cigar Lounge caters to devotees of Havana tobacco, a passion of Vienna's own Sigmund Freud.
Guests can opt to relax at Kempinski The Spa, featuring a Viennese Art Nouveau glass wall and a mix of East-meets-West treatments, and thalassotherapy pools including a bio-sauna. The hotel gym is extensive.
Courtesy of Hotel Bristol Vienna
Hotel Bristol is a place to revel in Vienna's artistic grandeur. This dignified hotel is next door to the magnificent Vienna State Opera — right next door. They are both classic The opera house opened in 1869 and the hotel in 1892.
This is a true grand hotel, with a dazzling location. a classic air, and a see-and-be-seen lobby. Hotel Bristol honors the traditions of hospitality and delivers no-question five-star hotel service. But it has a modern attitude, with programs like a pet-friendly policy and guest amenities like a 24-hour gym. (The hotel lacks a spa and pool, however.)
Rooms and suites are available in 10 different categories, from charming and compact to spacious and lavish. Most accommodations are furnished in the elegantly ornate style of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. The exception is the Bristol Suites, designed in glamorous Art Deco style.
Dining at the hotel's Bristol Lounge restaurant is classic and refined. In summertime, its Ice Cream Menu delights diners. The Bristol Bar is a Vienna destination for fine wines and modern cocktails made with a deluxe Viennese touch.
The hotel is a member of The Luxury Collection with Starwood Hotels. Guests who are member of Starwood Preferred Guest loyalty program accrue points toward free nights and receive perks such as free Wi-Fi. SPG enrollment is free.
Courtesy of Hotel Imperial Wien
Hotel Imperial's reputation for Mitteleuropean luxury has been in the making for nearly 150 years. Built as a princely home in 1863 and opened for business 10 years later, it is the longest-standing hotel in Vienna. Hotel Imperial is set on the Ringstrasse, the city's royal boulevard and the place to stroll, see the city, and be seen.
Hotel Imperial revels in its traditions. and its design is lavish, with gilt, marble, and chandeliers everywhere. The builder of the hotel, Duke Philipp of Württemberg, became head of the royal house of Württemberg, and Hotel Imperial is decorated with the crest of this historic kingdom, and the opulent uniforms of the hotel bear the royal crest.
Today Hotel Imperial is a member of Starwood's Luxury Collection. Despite this modern association, guests who choose Hotel Imperial should expect the utmost in tradition. The concierge staff are ultimate Vienna insiders. The hotel butler service, accorded to guests in suites, goes above and beyond (they even iron the morning paper). One much-anticipated butler ritual is the steaming nightly bath they prepare in guests' choice of rose or forest fragrance.
Dining at the hotel is upper-crust. Cafe Imperial is an institution, serving classic Viennese coffees, pastries, and light dishes well into the evening. The Michelin-starred Restaurant OPUS was designed in the 1920s by famed Viennese designer Josef Hoffman and has been restored to its Modernist glory. The OPUS menu is contemporary as well. It is available in a la carte choices and various prix-fixe tasting menus that are modestly priced for their quality. 1873, named for the hotel's birth year. is an elegant lounge bar that offers a festive Sunday Champagne Brunch.
The hotel's pastry shop is famed for its decadent, all-chocolate Imperial Torte, created for Emperor Franz Josef's appearance at the hotel opening party in 1873. (The only other version of the confection is called the Mozart Torte after Austria's musician supernova and adds pistachio marzipan to the recipe.)
The hotel offers a 24-hour gym, but no pool or spa. Pets are welcome, though for a considerable daily fee.
Courtesy of Hotel San Souci Wien
As one of Vienna's top hotels, Hotel Sans Souci Wien is doing a lot very well. With only 63 rooms, this is the definition of a boutique hotel, offering a social atmosphere and one-on-one service.
The hotel is centrally set in a historic building that straddles the royal district and the artsy Museum Quarter, so guests are within walking distance of hundreds of Viennese attractions. The hotel's design was masterminded by the London design firm YOO Design, whose partners are Philippe Starck and Jade Jagger. San Souci's rooms are very large, light, and tranquil. They are unquestionably modern, but with elegant vintage parquet floors and gracious high ceilings. Bathrooms are enormous and spa-like, with rainfall showers.
Hotel amenities include a full-service spa. The 66-foot indoor pool, elegantly lit by a chandelier, is nirvana for lap swimmers, but guests pay a considerable supplement to use the pool and gym. However, San Souci's Wi-Fi is free and the buffet breakfast is complimentary, unusual for Vienna. And room service will bring you coffee at any time of day on the house.
Hotel dining is relaxed and h​igh quality. La Véranda restaurant serves modern Austrian cuisine at breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Le Bar ​specializes in Champagne, craft cocktails, and fine wine.
Courtesy of The Guesthouse Vienna
This hotel does not overwhelm guests with his historic importance and its vintage décor. Modest and utterly charming, it sees itself as "a home away from home," and wants its guests to feel as relaxed as they do in their own house. The Wi-Fi is fast and free, and dogs are permitted at no charge, which is very unusual. At The Guesthouse Vienna, guests are encouraged to invite and entertain friends and colleagues to their rooms. Room minibars, which offer complimentary beer and wine, get used a lot at The Guest House.
The hotel is set in Vienna's historic center, a designated UNESCO World Heritage Site. This is where visitors stroll the Ringstrasse, take in the music of Viennese composers like Mozart and Strauss, and order coffee mit schlag at heritage cafés.
The Guesthouse Vienna's 39 rooms and suites range from 250 to 560 square feet. Designed by the renowned British style visionary Sir Terence Conran, these contemporary accommodations recall Vienna's Arts and Crafts movement at the turn of the 20th century, featuring shapely modern furniture created by top Austrian designers.
The Guesthouse Vienna's restaurant, The Brasserie & Bakery, serves its much-praised breakfast all day, with lunch and dinner offering as well. Everything served is made in-house, and guests rave about the breads and pastries, the salads, the soups, and (of course) the Viennese pastries. See the all-day menu. The Guest House Vienna has no gym, so guests can walk off The Brasserie's deliciously gained calories.
Courtesy of Altstadt Vienna
Vienna's signature hotel style is grand hotels in historic buildings. But many visitors prefer the intimacy, style, and individuality of boutique hotels. Hotel Altstadt takes this alternative recipe seriously and positions itself as a lifestyle hotel with a complex and vibrant personality.
Every one of its 58 rooms was created by different designers from all over the world. While all distinctive in appearance, they all make a point of creating an alternative to the 19th century Viennese ornateness you find in the city's grand hotels. Most Altstadt rooms are very modern, with an airy, unfussy feel and a sunny palette. You can peek at quite a few rooms in the hotel's online gallery and see the latest artist-design digs in the hotel's style blog, The Muse.
Altstadt Vienna does not have a full-service restaurant, but does serve breakfast. The hotel is very proud of its morning meal, claiming to serve the best bread, butter and ham in town.
Altstadt Vienna has a special appeal for younger visitors who are looking for a place to stay that is more casual and homier than the city's grand hotels. To sweeten this appeal, Altstadt Vienna rooms are priced lower. The hotel is very promotionally-minded, with attractive packages and deals.
One of Europe’s most beautifully preserved historic capitals, Vienna is a destination every traveler should aim to see at least once. Situated at the edge of Western Europe, only miles from Slovakia and the Czech Republic, the opulent, old-world metropolis manages to feel at once timeless and boldly contemporary.
It’s the sort of city where, in a single stroll, you might pass by horse-drawn carriages and stumble on the coolest contemporary art museum you’ve ever visited. And while the pace in Vienna is certainly more relaxed than more frantic Berlin, Paris or London, there’s a ton to see and do. Admire opera houses and imperial palaces; party in nightclubs, or hunker down for an afternoon in an ornate museum or gourmet coffee house.
Ursula Schmitz / TripSavvy
Situated in the historic center of Vienna, the Hofburg Palace is a stunning testament to the former Imperial power that once led much of Europe from the Austrian capital.
The vast complex—extending over 2.5 million square feet to comprise 18 wings, 19 courtyards, and 2,600 rooms—offers a glimpse into both the history and present day of Vienna. It has evolved from a medieval fortified castle into an imperial palace and is now one of the seats of democratic government, making it one of Europe's oldest and most enduring places of power. 
Until 1918 and the end of World War I, the Palace was the headquarters and main winter residence of the Imperial Monarchy; the powerful Habsburgs reigned here for some six centuries starting in the 13th century. Today, the Hofburg remains central to the Austrian government, housing the offices of the President as well as state ministers and secretaries of state. 
Most of the complex is worth exploring on a first visit, but there are three main highlights to focus your attention on: 
Imperial Apartments: If you've visited Versailles in Paris, you can already imagine the sort of opulence that awaits in the historic Imperial apartments of the Austrian emperors and empresses of old. The current furnishings, which mostly date to the mid-19th century and 18th century, are spread across several incredibly lavish rooms. Visitors can get a good sense of how Imperial rulers spent their days, exploring rooms such as the study, lavatory and bathroom, dining room, salons, audience chambers, and bedrooms. 
Sisi Museum: Named after the beloved Austrian Empress Elisabeth whose nickname was "Sisi," this collection of some 300 artifacts pays tribute to a powerful ruler whose legend has only grown over the decades. It traces the life of the empress from her childhood in the Imperial court to her death at the hand of an assassin in Switzerland in 1898. Elegant dresses and jewels, parasols, fans and gloves, and even her personal medical trunk and death certificate make up the intriguing permanent collection.  
Silver Collection: Some 7,000 items of fine silver and historic tableware are displayed in this collection, inviting visitors to close their eyes and imagine the lavish, elaborate banquets that took place for many centuries on the same premises. 
If you're also planning on visiting Schönbrunn Palace, the opulent historic abode of the imperial Hapsburg clan, you may want to consider purchasing a "Sisi Ticket." The ticket gives you combined entry to the Hofburg Palace and Schönbrunn Palace which houses the Imperial Furniture Collection. Overall, this reduces entry prices by about 25 percent, so it's well worth it.
Getting There: The Hofburg can be accessed from the U3 (Orange) underground line; get off at Herrengasse and follow the signs to the entrance. You can also take Tram line 1, 2, D and 71 (get off at Burgring). 
Ursula Schmitz / TripSavvy
Although Vienna is deeply associated with classical traditions in art, music, and architecture, it's also a hotbed of current artistic creation, home to an unusual number of modern art museums, theaters, and art schools. The Museumsquartier is definitely the place to be if you want to experience the city's vibrant contemporary art scene, as well as take in modern masterpieces from Austrian artists such as Gustav Klimt and Egon Schiele. 
Around 70 different museums, galleries, theaters, dance halls, cultural associations, cafes, and restaurants make up this vast complex in the city center, warranting a full morning or afternoon of exploration. Don't let the Baroque-era facade fool you: Inside, the style is far more eclectic and contemporary, with airy, bright gallery spaces, colorful modern sculptures, and spaces to sit, lounge and soak up some artistic inspiration. Frequented by students and young people, the Museumsquartier is usually packed, especially in the summer months when the long days draw locals to come to hang out for hours in the outside areas. 
Must-see museums in the complex include the Leopold Museum, which boasts a collection of Austrian Symbolist and Expressionist art and works from the famed Secession movement, led by Gustav Klimt. The museum also holds the world's largest and most precious collection of works by Egon Schiele, one of Austria's most beloved modern painters. 
To plunge into Vienna's vibrant current-day artistic scene, meanwhile, the Kunsthalle Wien holds regular exhibits highlighting some of the most innovative and talented contemporary artists, both from Austria and from around the globe. 
 
Coffee and traditional coffeehouses are very serious business in Vienna. In 2011, UNESCO even named the city's centuries-old cafe culture a World Heritage Site.
There's something charmingly old-world about enjoying a strong coffee, whether black or a melange (a local drink resembling a cappuccino), while reading a newspaper and taking in the low din of chatter and clanking dishes that fill Vienna's classic old cafes. Enjoying a slice of cake is also a strong tradition at these institutions (when in Vienna, counting calories is not a good idea if you're after an authentic experience). 
Traditional marble tables or cozy booths, heavy curtains to keep out the cold, oh-so-civilized coatracks, warm woodwork, old photos on the walls, and vintage lamps are typical fixtures in most traditional Viennese cafes. Some of the more popular, and iconic, coffeehouses to beeline for include Café Prückel, Cafe Central (whose famous patrons have included Sigmund Freud) and Cafe Ritter.
Igor Golovniov / EyeEm / Getty Images
Remember that eating cake is an essential part of any first trip to Vienna? One delicious task is to compare rival chocolate cakes at Hotel /Cafe Sacher and Cafe Demel. This is a decades-long rivalry that the Viennese love to cultivate since it fuels tourism—not to mention obliging us to compare ultra-rich tortes. 
Here's the story in a nutshell: The Hotel Sacher claims to have invented the signature "Sachertorte" that bears its name, a dense chocolate sponge cake with thin layers of apricot jam, topped with a cold, firm chocolate icing. This seems legitimate; Chef Sacher is believed to have concocted the cake for the first time in 1832. 
Later, the Cafe Demel, known for its own luxurious baked goods and excellent tearoom, created its version of the quintessential Viennese cake, dubbing it Demels Sachertorte. Legal disputes followed, but after a while, Demel had gained a dedicated following convinced that this version of the cake, featuring one rather than two layers of apricot jam, was superior to Sacher's original. Long before reality television, this was perhaps the very first "cake war" and it continues to this day.
Ursula Schmitz / TripSavvy
This breathtaking Gothic cathedral is one of Europe's loveliest. It boasts an eclectic mish-mash of architectural and decorative styles that reflect many renovations over hundreds of years. Most recently, the interiors were modified during the Baroque period. 
Construction began during the 12th century, and the flamboyant high-gothic style is readily apparent in the Cathedral's four towers, one of which houses an impressive 13 bells. The enormous Pummerin bell is the second-largest chimed church bell in Europe and is situated in the North Tower. Remarkable views over the entire city can be appreciated from the towers, especially the South. 
The Cathedral's distinctive colored tiles that decorate its roof form the pattern of the Vienna coat of arms and the Imperial double-headed Eagle. 
In addition to visiting the Cathedral and its lovely towers, the onsite crypt and catacombs are fascinating for their notable tombs. Emperor Friedrich III and other Imperial leaders are buried here, alongside numerous cardinals and bishops. 
Getting There: From the city center, Take the U-Bahn Line U3 to Stephansplatz. 
Ursula Schmitz / TripSavvy 
For anyone with a passion for opera, Vienna is an essential destination. A reigning symbol of the Austrian capital's distinguished musical heritage and elegance, the State Opera stands proudly on one of the city's busiest and most central streets. As home to the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra, some of the world's finest classical music, opera and ballet performances are staged here. 
Whether you choose to simply admire the neoclassical facade (built in 1869 under the reign of Emperor Francis Joseph I) or enjoy one of the 350 performances that animate the stage each year, the Opera remains an essential sight in a city passionate about classical music. 
Getting There: The Opera is served by tram lines 1,2, 62, 71 and D; the stop is Kartner Ring-Oper. You can also take the U-Bahn Line U2 to Karlsplatz, then walk about five minutes. 
 Ursula Schmitz / TripSavvy
This permanent open-air market is one of the coolest (and tastiest) places to hang out in the city, beloved by all age groups and frequented morning, noon and night. If it's fresh produce, cheese, meat, bread, or high-quality spices you're after, the market stalls here offer some of Vienna's very best. Dozens of vendors peddling everything from fresh fruit to olives, kraut and sausages, and other local specialties have been joined in more recent years by stalls selling international delicacies (Japanese, Turkish, Moroccan, Eastern European, and many others). 
This is also a favorite local spot for coffee or a casual evening meal; several laid-back restaurants and cafes operate on the premises, many with outdoor seating in the warmer seasons. In the spring or summer, enjoying a beer or casual dinner at the Naschmarkt is one of the most authentic things you can do. Just try to arrive on the early side to secure a table; it's not unusual to see crowded tables even on weekdays. 
The market is open Monday to Saturday, with most stalls opening at 7 a.m. and closing at 7 p.m. (5 p.m. on Saturday). Onsite cafes and restaurants have separate opening times, but many are closed on Sunday as well. 
Getting There: Take the U-Bahn (Underground) Line U4 to Karlsplatz and follow the signs to the market. 
Often compared to Versailles, Schönbrunn Palace served as the summer residence of the powerful Habsburgs and exemplifies the wealth and power enjoyed by the Royal Imperial family. 
First established as an Imperial hunting lodge in the late 17th century, it was significantly expanded upon during the 18th to become a permanent summer residence under the powerful Empress Maria Theresa, mother of Marie Antoinette. 
The Grand Tour of the palace takes you through some 40 opulent rooms and offers an in-depth look at the life and reign of the Hapsburgs, from their most private daily affairs to the political intrigues that filled the palace walls. The Imperial Apartments are especially striking.
The lovely, expansive formal gardens at the palace are also essential, particularly in the spring, when thousands of flowers and trees blossom and bring to life the eye-catching landscapes. The gardens were named a UNESCO World Heritage site in 1996. There's even an onsite vineyard, reflecting Vienna's history as a maker of distinctive local white wines. 
Tickets & Getting There: ​Visit the official website for practical information on the Palace and to purchase tickets online. Three forms of public transportation take you right up to the palace and have Schönbrunn-marked stops.
Taylor McIntyre / TripSavvy
This vast, leafy park is the biggest within Vienna's city limits and is a favorite place for locals to head in the summer for picnics, Ferris wheel rides, and other amusement park attractions. The enormous complex also boasts an onsite cinema, Madame Tussauds wax museum, cafes and restaurants, a nightclub, and a bowling alley. 
Dominating the park and the skyline of the adjoining Leopoldstadt neighborhood, the enormous Ferris wheel dates to 1897, and is one of Europe's largest. Entry to the Prater is free; individual rides and attractions will set you back a few Euros but are reasonably priced. 
Head here in the warmer spring and summer months to get some outdoor activities in and enjoy a lazy picnic on the grass, or rent bikes for a morning or afternoon, taking advantage of the bike paths that wend through the park. The park is open year-round, and in the autumn and winter months can still offer a pleasant walk or a day of fun and distraction for the whole family. 
Getting There: The main entrance to the Prater is located on an enormous traffic circle known as the Praterstern; get off at this station from Metro lines U1 or U2. You may also take tram line O and 5 to the end of the line to reach the park. 
A boat cruise of the Danube river allows you to see the city from a different vantage, appreciating its lovely architecture and intriguing blend of Western and Eastern European cultural influences. You can either take a short sightseeing cruise that keeps you more or less within the Viennese city limits or opt for a full day on the water. Many tourists opt to stop in the lush Wachau Valley 30 minutes outside the city, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. From there, wine tasting and bike tours, a visit to a medieval Abbey, or tours on foot of the breathtaking valley make for an ideal day trip. 
Take the opportunity to see the nearby Slovakian capital of Bratislava, traveling from Vienna to its sister capital only 34 miles away by boat. Particularly if you don't have time for another day trip, this can be an excellent way to make a short foray into Eastern Europe. 
Several companies offer boat cruises and high-speed catamaran trips from and around Vienna, but DDSG Blue Danube is the most popular and trusted.
Spanische Hofreitschule
The world-famous Lipizzaner Stallions put on a show of equestrian excellence set to classical Viennese music at the Winter Spanish Riding School (Spanische Hofreitschule) located in the Hofburg Palace.
These performances are the culmination of years of training for both the rider and their horses. Visitors can see a performance and take a guided tour of the Winter Spanish Riding School. You'll find the visitor center at Michaelerplatz in the Hofburg (under the Michaelerkuppel).
Tickets: Tickets for performances and tours are available online.Getting There: The Hofburg can be accessed from the U3 (Orange) underground line; get off at Herrengasse. You can also take Tram line 1, 2, D and 71 (get off at Burgring). The entrance to the Spanish Riding School is at Josefsplatz.
 
Westend61/Getty Images
Vienna's town hall (Wiener Rathaus) was built in the 1800s in a Neo-Gothic style similar to the Brussels town hall. The Rathaus has five towers, with the iconic Rathausman statue topping the tallest.
You can take a free guided tour of the inside of the lavish Town Hall on designated days, usually Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays at 1 p.m. The Information Center in the town hall is open Monday to Friday from 07:30 a.m.– 6:00 p.m.
Getting There: Take the Metro U2 and get off at station Rathaus.
vgajic/Getty Images
 
On the grounds of the Schönbrunn Palace, you'll find Vienna's Zoo (Tiergarten Schönbrunn), the oldest continuously operating zoo in the world originally founded as an imperial menagerie in 1752. You can stroll the lovely grounds and see some of the original buildings as well as modern animal habitats and displays.
Approximately 8,500 animals live in the zoo representing more than 700 animal species including a giant panda, giraffes, and sea lions as well as smaller beings such as ants and exotic spiders.
The zoo has scheduled educational sessions, a simulated Amazon rainforest environment to walk through, and snack bars and cafes where you can rest.
Getting There: Schönbrunn Zoo has several entrances. The main entrance— Hietzing—is close to the U4 underground station Hietzing. The Schönbrunn Palace Gardens are reached via the Hietzinger Tor and then you just follow the pathway between the Palm House and the Desert House.
 
spastonov/Getty Images
Visit the beautiful French gardens and ornate buildings of Belvedere Palace where such notable Austrians as Prince Eugene of Savoy and Archduke Franz Ferdinand once lived. The impressive Baroque buildings house a collection of Austrian art including works by Gustav Klimt.
Belvedere Palace and grounds are open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Guided tours are available. Tickets can be purchased online.
Getting There: Belvedere Palace is located southeast of the Innere Stadt, between the Wieden and Landstrasse districts. The nearest public transportation is the tram where you'll get off at Quartier Belvedere.
Sofitel, Accor Hotels
Das Loft on the Sofitel Hotel's 18th floor is a glass-walled restaurant and lounge with an amazing bird's eye view of Vienna. Floor-to-ceiling glass windows make it easy to see Vienna’s iconic St. Stephen's Cathedral, the Danube river, and the city skyline. At night the amazing 21,500-square-foot illuminated ceiling swirls like a piece of impressionist art.
Wald & Wiese
Those who adore local honey won't want to miss the Wald & Wiese specialty boutique where honey and honey-related products are sold. But what's really interesting is where the honey comes from. Over 5,000 bee colonies and 600 bee-keepers harvest honey from Vienna's rooftop hives including from the Rathaus, Staatsoper, Kunsthistorisches Museum Vienna, and some of the famous hotels. You can shop for honey and products made with honey (as well as seasonal truffle-related products) and taste honey-based beverages including mead and honey-and-whiskey liqueur.
Getting There: Wald & Wiese has four locations in Vienna.
 Mlenny/Getty Images
Wiener schnitzel, the national dish of Austria, is known far and wide as a staple in German-American restaurants. But you can have the real thing in Vienna. You'll find veal or pork schnitzel with sides of lettuce salad, potato salad, boiled potatoes or fries and usually accompanied by a slice of lemon. Restaurants with traditional Austrian food will have Wiener schnitzel on the menu. Schnitzelwurt at Neubaugasse 52, 1070, serves some 15 varieties of schnitzel including pork, chicken, and turkey and is a favorite of both locals and tourists.
 
grabi/Getty Images
Vienna's winemaking history dates back to the twelfth century and today, Vienna's wine country produces mostly crisp whites such as Riesling. To go wine tasting, you don't need to leave the city as there are an estimated 180 wine taverns and wine bars around the city and in the suburbs.
The Vienna Heurigen Express, which looks like a little train, offers a Hop-on, Hop-off tour through the vineyards and wineries close to Vienna.
 
anamejia18/Getty Images 
Rent from City Bike Vienna and your first hour of exploring the city on two wheels is free with the second costing only €1 (there's a one-time registration fee of €1). Pick up a bike at a street rack and then carefully return the bike to another rack. You can use your credit card at over 120 bike stations. Vienna has bike lanes, making it fairly easy to get around.
George Pachantouris/Getty Images
Wiener Riesenrad, Vienna's giant Ferris wheel, will give you some great views but it can also be the setting for a romantic evening. The wheel, located at the fairgrounds, has a special cabin that couples can rent for an hour or so, sip some Champagne, and even have a romantic candlelight dinner served.
For something really special, book a romantic crystal dinner for two in the Crystal Wagon decorated with Swarovski crystals and, before you leave, open your little Swarovski crystal gift.
Getting There: Take the Metro: U1, U2 - (Praterstern station), the urban railway: S1-S3, S7, S15 Wien Nord (Vienna North) or the tram: 0, 5.
A romantic city as well as the capital of Austria, Vienna welcomes couples who have an interest in art, architecture, and history as well as a sweet tooth. The following pictures reveal the must-see sights and romantic charms of Vienna.
Vienna is a large city with much to see. To help get your bearings, get a Vienna Pass, which will save you money on admissions.
Use your pass to start your visit with a Hop-on Hop-Off bus tour. The pass also provides entry to some 60 city attractions including:
Other romantic ways to explore Vienna together are on a guided walking tour and city cruise, both of which are included in the pass.
Visit Vienna on a Viking Danube Cruise
Find a Hotel in Vienna |  
Built around 1700, the 1,441-room Schönbrunn Palace is a world-renowned example of Baroque architecture. During Maria Theresia's 18th century reign, the Palace reached the apogee of court life and hosted the leading statesmen of Europe.
Schönbrunn Palace and park joined the list of UNESCO World Cultural Heritage Sites in 1996. Schönbrunn Zoo, the world's oldest, is on the grounds and certainly worth a stroll.
Note: As one of Vienna's most popular historical attractions, the Palace can get quite crowded. Staff herds visitors through quickly. Insider tip: Request an extra ticket to see the less touristed Widow's Palace of the main palace. 
The formal imperial palace, Hofburg was home to the Emperor of Austria and his court until 1918. Today the Hofburg is the official seat of the Austrian Federal President. It is open to the public (fee) as a museum.
Highlights of a visit to the Hofburg include seeing the Imperial Silver Collection, which reveals the opulence of royal banquets; the Sisi Museum, which displays more than more than 300 personal items that belonged to the beautiful Empress Elisabeth; and the 19-room Imperial Apartments, where Emperor Franz Joseph and Empress Elisabeth lived in grandeur.
The city is home to several art museums, but if you're fans of Gustav Klimt, there's no better place in the city than Belvedere Palace  to check out him and other Art Nouveau, Secessionist and Impressionist painters.
This two-story, 18th-century Baroque palace was built as a summer residence for Prince Eugene of Savoy (1663-1736) and the extensive gardens evoke Versailles.
Born outside Vienna, Gustav Klimt is Austria's best-known artist. Many of Klimt's most beautiful pictures have an embellished female as their subject. The painting everyone comes to see is Klimt's "The Kiss," with its exquisite gold brushwork. It's on display under glass and there may be a circle of school kids surrounding it, but it's still a great treasure.
The same room displays several of Klimt's female portraits including "Judith." An adjacent room holds several paintings by the tortured soul Egon Schiele. Both men died young of venereal disease.
Klimt attended the Vienna School of Arts and Crafts and was a founder of the city's Art Nouveau movement. Sinuous and decorative Art Nouveau was a reaction to rigid conservatism. It peaked as a European design movement in the early 20th century.
Throughout Vienna, vestiges of Art Nouveau remain. In addition to Art Nouveau buildings, the style flourished in furniture, jewelry, painting, and other decorative arts. In Austria, the movement was also known as Vienna Secession.
While most visitors to Wiener Riesenrad, Vienna's giant ferris wheel, willingly share space with strangers, the attraction holds one special cabin that couples can rent for an hour or so.
It's decorated with Swarovski crystals, and you can arrange to have a candlelight dinner served or just sip champagne as you privately take in the views of the Imperial City. 
If the coffeehouse didn't originate in Vienna, the city definitely perfected them. Combine extraordinary pastries (Vienna is home to the famous sacher torte, a chocolate cake with a thin layer of apricot jam), exceptional coffee and a citizenry who appreciates face-to-face contact, the result is fine coffee houses, some more than a century old.
Cafe Sperl and the Cafe at Hotel Sacher in the heart of Vienna are two popular destinations for lovers and other caffeine buddies.
Then there's Cafe Landtmann, which opened in 1873. It retains its old-world charm with tuxedo-clad waiters gracefully weaving through the burnished wood and brass surroundings. Cafe Landtmann's menu offers 40 different types of coffee preparation (the most popular is melange, a combination of half coffee and half milk froth) and an equal number of pastries to accompany them.
In the 1930s, Sigmund Freud was a Cafe Landtmann habitue, where he did more than his share of observing human nature and smoking cigars. The founder of modern psychoanalysis, Freud maintained a home and office nearby at at Berggasse 19 until he was forced to flee the Nazis in 1938. Many original items from the Freud house are on display in the Sigmund Freud Museum. Perhaps most exciting to view is the leather couch that Freud's analysands reclined upon, sharing their dreams and fantasies.
As Vienna is a great city for walking and picture taking, you needn't worry about gaining weight as you become part of its coffee house culture and sample its sweets.
Take an old-fashioned ride around the city. Destination: Prata Park. Inside is Lusthaus, a romantic restaurant that dates back to the 1780s. The round edifice contains two floors and looks out over the greensward and the city beyond. Order some fresh trout or other local specialty and toast your good fortune with Austrian wine as you feed your lust.
Vienna's main Swarovski crystal shop at #24 Kartnerstrasse, Vienna's main shopping street, extends three stories and entices shoppers in with spectacular window displays. It's open from 9 am to 9 pm most days, closes at 6 pm on Saturdays, and like most retail in the city is shuttered on Sundays.
Note: Swarovski is headquartered in Innsbruck, Austria.
Diamonds and Rubies Oh My!
If your taste and budget lean to the real stuff, the house of Kochert has been providing jewels to crowned heads for seven generations. The company's best-known bijoux are stars inspired by a diadem worn by the Empress Elizabeth, known affectionately as Sisi.
Kochert continues to create its own designs, and the star motif is available in a variety of styles and iterations from earrings and rings to necklaces and hair jewelry for the modern princess.
Voted one of the 50 Best Restaurants in Europe, Steirereck is located along the Ringstrasse in Stadtpark. In contrast to the historic buildings that surround it, this ultra-modern restaurant with floor-to-ceiling windows in its new section serves refined contemporary cuisine. The original structure dates from the 1860s, and both sides can host wedding parties. 
It's ubiquitous in Vienna, from the gilded State Opera House, where the season extends for 10 months and there's a different opera or ballet every night. And in the afternoon, backstage guided tours are available.
To hear the sound of prepubescent angels, attend Sunday mass in the Chapel of the Imperial Palace, where the Vienna Boys Choir adds wings to musical notes (ticket required). The boys perform in the 400-seat Muth Theater as well.
Winter is the most magical, romantic time to visit Vienna. 
Imagine yourselves decked out in white tie and tails and a ballgown that sweeps the floor. In the city many balls take place, giving residents and visitors an opportunity to Viennese-waltz the night away.
The Vienna State Opera is the venue for the world-renowned Vienna Opera Ball. The annual Carnival-season event takes place the Thursday before Ash Wednesday. 
Situated in several scenic locations, the Christmas Markets open in mid-November and last until the Christian holiday. A phantasmagoria of color and sound and light and the most delicious smells and tastes plus a wide array of handmade treasures, these markets are particularly romantic at night.
Alongside Paris, London and Rome, Vienna is one of Europe's great artistic and cultural capitals. Home to some of the most important artists of the 20th century, including Gustav Klimt, Egon Schiele and Oskar Kokoschka, its numerous, rich art collections reflect these masters' enduring influence. The city also boasts a number of cultural treasures, displayed in natural history collections, royal palaces turned into vast public exhibitions and museums dedicated to specific Viennese communities. Especially on a first trip to the city, it can be difficult to decide which of these remarkable collections to focus your time on. Luckily, we've taken out the guesswork for you. Read on for the top 10 museums in Vienna — and prepare to be dazzled by their riches. 
Imagno / Contributor/Getty Images
Home to the globe's most extensive and important collection of Austrian art, the Leopold Museum is brimming with masterpieces — from the likes of Gustav Klimt, Egon Schiele, Koloman Moser, Oskar Kokoschka and many others. Part of the extensive Museumsquartier, a vast complex of museums, exhibition spaces, restaurants, cafes and theaters, the Leopold collections merit a morning or afternoon — especially if you want to understand the history of Austrian art and its radical evolution. 
Remarkable works to beeline to within the collections here include Klimt's moving (and chilling) "Death and Life"; stirring self-portraits by Schiele and Kokoschka, breathtaking landscapes from all three; and an underrated collection of furniture and other objects from the "Wiener Werkstatte", or Vienna workshop.  
Can't get enough of the turn-of-the-century period and its bold new aesthetic vision? If so, we also recommend taking a trip over to the nearby Secession. This iconic white-and-gold building represents the artistic movement of the same name, spearheaded by Klimt and several fellow artists during the end of the 19th century. It's home to Klimt's breathtaking Beethoven Frieze, an epic and yet oddly minimalist mural created in 1902 as a visual "manifesto" of the Secession art movement. 
 
Michal Krakowiak/Getty Images
One of the most lovely spots in Vienna for architecture, art and a good dose of fresh air, the Belvedere is a beloved institution in the Austrian capital. It's well worth getting away from the city center to come explore this vast cultural complex — listed as a UNESCO World Heritage site. 
The palace, constructed in the early 18th century by the Prince Eugene of Savoy, is a work of art in its own right, worth exploring through a guided tour if time allows. The gardens — free to visit — are equally lovely. 
Meanwhile, the permanent art collection is as sweeping and impressive as they come, spanning everything from medieval painting to Baroque sculptures, masterpieces from 19th and 20th century Europe artists and even contemporary photography. Klimt's world-famous painting, "The Kiss", is one of many highlights within the collection. 
Temporary exhibits are held in the lower part of the Belvedere, including the Orangery. You can also enjoy a pleasant meal or afternoon tea at one of the onsite cafes and tearooms. 
Sylvain Sonnet/Corbis Documentary/Getty Images
Vienna's fascinating Natural History Museum was opened in its current form during the 1870s, a period that saw great public enthusiasm for the sciences and the creation of numerous natural history collections around the world. But its earliest origins date even further back, to the mid-eighteenth century, when the "Enlightenment" swept across Europe. Today, it still retains some of its quirky and occasionally creepy old-world charms, but it's also firmly moved into the 21st century. 
From hulking dinosaur skeletons to the world's largest and oldest collection of meteorites, displays on the origins and evolution of humans and a remarkable prehistoric exhibition featuring objects dating to some 30,000 years ago, the permanent collections are captivating for all ages. 
There's also a recently opened Planetarium to assuage the curiosity of space enthusiasts: here, enjoy virtual journeys to the very edge of the Milky Way.
Kunsthalle Wien 
Another museum nestled within the Museumsquartier complex, the Kunsthalle Wien is an essential stop for anyone interested in getting a sense of Vienna's vibrant contemporary art scene. The enormous building hosts a constant stream of temporary exhibits that showcase local and global artists, as well as artistic movements that span different media. From photography and sculpture to painting, video installations and performance art, there's something on the program for everyone, no matter your preferred medium. 
Opened in 1992, the Kunstalle also includes a onsite library dedicated to contemporary art, cafes frequented by arty locals and curious tourists, and a gift shop stocked with art books, prints and other items. 
Wikimedia Commons/public domain
One of Vienna's oldest museums, this remarkable collection is housed in an opulent 19th-century building designed to showcase the riches of the Imperial collections. 
The permanent exhibit is one of Europe's most extensive and sweeping collections of fine art, nearly matching the breadth of those at the Louvre in Paris and the Metropolitan Museum in New York City. It's probably best to focus on two or three wings at most in a single visit. 
Start by exploring the Egyptian and Near East Collection, with its sarcophagi and coffins, mummies, ancient sculptures and scrolls. Next, take a stroll through the Greek and Roman antiquities section, whose riches include Bronze-age ceramics from third-century Cyprus,  an Amazonian sarcophagus and delicate antique cameos.
The Picture Gallery, meanwhile, houses one of the Austrian capital's most breathtaking collections of paintings from the 16th and 17th centuries. Dutch, German and Venetian masters from Titian to Rubens and Van Eyck grace the halls of this stunning wing. 
The museum is also home to eclectic and niche collections, including antique musical instruments, coins and a royal armory.
Helmut Mayer zue Capellen/Getty Images 
Boasting masterpieces from most of the greatest painters and artistic movements of the past 600 years, the Albertina is beloved by locals and tourists alike. The permanent collection includes paintings, drawings and sculptures, photography and even a section dedicated to architecture.
Masters from Michelangelo to Rembrandt, Picasso, Monet, Chagall, Schiele and  Klimt, and many others make up the stunning permanent collection. Millions of items of fine art are regularly circulated and exhibited in thematic exhibits throughout the year.
In addition, the Albertina also hosts some of the city's most-anticipated temporary shows, partnering with prestigious museums from other cities to curate exhibits on topics including Impressionism, Expressionism, contemporary film, architectural drawings and countless others. 
 Ursula Schmitz / TripSavvy
The sprawling complex of palaces, old-world stables and government buildings are a living museum documenting Vienna's powerful Imperial legacy. The powerful Hapsburg family ruled Austria — and dominated Europe — for some 700 years, until they were toppled in the early 20th century. 
Visit the Imperial Palace and treasuries (see more below), including the emblematic Silver collection. See the apartments of Emperors and Empresses past, including the private quarters of Emperor Franz Joseph and his wife, the Empress Elizabeth, who was tragically assassinated at the end of the 19th century. There's a small onsite museum dedicated to "Sisi's" memory.
Meanwhile, the Chapel of the Imperial Palace and the charmingly old-fashioned Spanish Riding School are also essential, plunging you into a European heritage that pre-dates modern life. 
The site is also home to the Austrian National Library and the Presidential Palace. It's more than easy to spend a full morning or afternoon touring and marveling at the Hofburg's many riches. 
Wikimedia Commons/public domain 
Part of the Hofburg Palace's extensive collections and located next to the "new wing" of the Art History Museum, the Imperial Treasury houses precious objects — both religious and non-religious — that represent 1,000 years of European history. 
Roam its 21 opulent rooms to take in the treasures that once belonged to the powerful House of Habsburg:  Imperial regalia, crowns, swords and scepters; large, valuable gems such as emeralds and an agate bowl rumored to be the holy grail; the Austrian crown jewels, and even oddities such as the bones and horns of strange animals. There's even an enormous narwhal horn thought to be a unicorn's. 
In addition to this remarkable collection of secular objects, there's also a large section dedicated to ecclesiastical regalia, altars and devotional images. Most of these objects date to the Baroque period. Arguably the most stunning piece of the entire collection is the Holy Roman Empire Crown: created during the 10th century, it was used to crown successive Emperors, and is lavishly decorated with biblical images and symbols. 
R. Hackenberg/Getty Images 
Vienna has historically been home to one of Europe's largest and most vibrant Jewish communities, which over the centuries has made enormous contributions to Austrian culture, art, science and music. From the psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud to the philosopher Ludwig von Wittgenstein, Viennese Jews have left indelible marks on Viennese culture.
But the city is also the site of a dark and torturous history: millions of Jewish citizens were deported and exterminated in Nazi death camps during World War II, after Austria fell to German occupation (and to Adolf Hitler, a native Austrian). Earlier, during the Middle Ages, a thriving Jewish community was targeted in numerous pogroms, expelled from the city and murdered. 
To memorialize this complex, beautiful and tragic history, Vienna has two Jewish Museums. Visitors can gain access to both with a single ticket. The first, located at Judenplatz (Jewish Square) opened in 2000, at the one-time site of a synagogue that was destroyed during the Middle Ages. This site comprises a stirring Holocaust Memorial constructed from concrete and designed by Rachel Whiteread. It resembles a library of books, turned upside down. The Judenplatz site also features a fascinating and moving virtual tour of Jewish Viennese life during the 14th century. 
The second site, located at Dorotheergasse, features several permanent collections tracing the history and cultural contributions of Jewish communities in Vienna during the modern era. 
In addition to the permanent exhibitions at the two sites, temporary events and shows bring to light new perspectives on the history of Jewish life and culture in the Austrian capital. 
Sylvain Sonnet/Photographer's Choice/Getty Images 
 
Last but certainly not least, the magnificent Schönbrunn Palace is another essential site for anyone seeking to understand the powerful Habsburg Empire and its enduring legacy in Vienna. 
Rivalling Versailles in Paris, the enormous palace and sprawling, beautiful gardens around it attract visitors from near and far to explore its dozens of rooms and elegant green space. 
The Palace was first built at the end of the 17th century, commissioned by Emperor Leopold I as a hunting lodge. Over the next century and a half, it would grow into the enormous Imperial Palace we see now. It would become the permanent summer residence of the Empress Maria Theresa, one of Europe's most powerful rulers and the mother of French-Austrian Queen Marie Antoinette. 
A tour of the Palace and its grounds is a fascinating way to spend a morning or afternoon. Roam through rooms such as the quarters of the Emperor Franz Joseph and his wife Elisabeth; the apartments of Maria Theresa and Franz I, and the Franz Karl Apartment: these quarters were once inhabited by Franz Joseph’s parents. The "Grand Tour" gives visitors access to a total of 40 rooms, most still appointed with opulent furniture and decor spanning three centuries. 
Meanwhile, the lush gardens offer strolls in peace and quiet that can be extended over a couple of hours. In addition to the formal topiary, fountains and sculptures, there's even an onsite vineyard. 
Vienna is surrounded by beauty, culture, and history. Close to Slovakia, the Czech Republic, and Hungary, it affords travelers plenty of great getaways with minimum hassle and expense. It's also in close reach of idyllic countryside villages, vineyards with wine-tasting opportunities, and breathtaking mountain landscapes. These are the best day trips from Vienna, Austria that can also be extended to an overnight or weekend stay, so you can make the most of each destination.  
The Wachau Valley is a remarkable network of green forests, storybook castles, medieval abbeys, pristine riverbanks, idyllic vineyards, and cute little towns. The area is also a UNESCO World Heritage site and one of the most popular getaways from Vienna.  
Located about an hour from the city center by car or bus, the Valley offers plenty of things to see and do. It's coveted by history buffs, wine lovers, foodies, and anyone in search of a bucolic and quaint Austria. 
Spanning some 25 miles between the pretty towns of of Krems and Melk, the Wachau Valley (also referred to as the Danube Valley for the river that runs through it) is rich with both history and natural beauty. 
What to Do There: Make sure to visit the stunning Melk Abbey, situated at the top of a hill and offering gorgeous views over the river below and the entire Valley. The Benedictine Abbey, which dates to 1089, is perched on a site that has been used by various royal and religious figures for over 1,000 years. Its fine marble elements, arresting domed entrance, and picturesque gardens make it a real draw card in the Valley. There's also a museum dating to the Austrian Imperial period, offering visitors a good overview of the site and displaying numerous opulent artifacts. 
Wine tasting in the Wachau valley is also a great options, as is a long walk along the Danube between Melk and Krems, and exploring the area's many interesting historic sites. Take a look at this page on the UNESCO World Heritage Trail in the Valley. 
Take the train for an hour due east, and you'll find yourself in Bratislava, the capital of Slovakia and one of the prettiest and most well-preserved cities in Europe. 
Bratislava's cobbled pedestrian streets lined with cafes and restaurants, grand old national theatre, and whimsical statues make for an ideal day trip. Even many travelers on tight budgets will find the fare reasonable, and when it's nice out, walking around and visiting the city's main monuments is an inexpensive way to spend the day. 
What to Do There: With its distinctive, brightly colored facades and warm red rooftops, the city is cheerful and full of interesting sites, even on a foggy or rainy day. Make sure to visit the 16th-century Bratislava castle, a storybook-worthy monument that dominates a high hill overlooking the old city. 
If you have a bit more time and wouldn't mind spending a lot of time on the water, a day-long cruise by boat from Vienna to Bratislava is entirely possible, too. However, these cruises generally only operate between April to September. 
One of the most idyllic and easy ways to get out of the city for a spell is to head for the local vineyards of Vienna. These winemaking areas are remarkably close to the urban hustle and bustle but make you feel like you've gotten far, far away from it all. 
Vienna counts an astounding 700 hectares of actively cultivated vines within its greater city limits, and 80% of these produce distinctive Austrian white wines, including the world-famous Gruner Vetliner and Wiener Gemischter Satz, a local speciality. 
In the spring and fall, locals flock to the vineyards to catch a bit of bucolic country charm, taste and judge the seasonal bounty, and nibble on typical Austrian specialties at local heurige (country wine estates where food is also generally served).
What to Do There: This is probably one of the most Austrian things you can do on a trip to Wien: spend a lazy afternoon at a heurige or two. Taste the latest whites and tuck into a plate of cheese, charcuterie, special salads and homemade cakes. 
For more information on the best wine-tastings and heurige in close reach of the city, including information on how to get there by train and/or bus, visit this page. 
More than 900 years old, the Klosterneuburg Monastery is one of the Vienna area's loveliest and most historically important centers of religious activity. It houses numerous prized works of religious art, including the "Verdun Altar," crowns, and other ceremonial items. 
Blending high Gothic and Baroque architecture, the Monastery features distinctive green domes and towers that can be spotted from afar as you approach the hilly area on which it stands. It's also surrounded by centuries-old vineyards: a typical feature of the Austrian countryside. 
Founded in 1114 by Margrave Leopold III, the site has served as a residence of many Imperial dynasties, including the Habsburgs. Since it's served as an unusual combination of monastery and royal residence, it lends much insight into the religious and Imperial history of Austria. 
What to Do There: Make sure to see the Verdun Altar, a remarkably well-preserved piece of medieval art. Also see the onsite wine cellars and the former private rooms of Emperor Charles VI, which serve as the starting point for most guided tours. For more information on getting there, what to do and see at the monastery, see this page. 
Crowning a grand hill that was prized by settlers as far back as the prehistoric period, this castle and fortress is one of the most arresting sites around Vienna. Although the original 12th-century medieval structure was destroyed during the 17th century, the reconstructed 19th-century site and its adjoining museum make for a fun and informative visit. 
Kreuzenstein served as a center of strategic defense against enemies for many centuries, and was acquired by the powerful Habsburg family (later to rule much of Europe with their Empire) during the Middle Ages. Today, it serves as a museum of medieval history, art and culture.
What to Do There: There's an armory, chapel, Knight's Hall, kitchen and keep to explore. For more information on visiting the site, including details on guided tours and admission fees, see this page. 
True, Prague is a bit of a stretch for a day trip in the strict sense—at least if you want to really take advantage of the city. But if you leave Vienna early in the morning and opt for an overnight stay in the Czech capital, a 24-hour hop between the two remarkable cities is feasible. 
It takes around four hours to get to Prague from the Austrian capital, by train, car, or tourist bus. For this reason, make sure to set out early so you have enough time to explore all the highlights of the former center of Bohemia. 
What to Do There: Old Prague is a marvel and another UNESCO World Heritage site. With its breathtaking and remarkably preserved Old Town Square, Royal Palace, Jewish Quarter and distinctive synagogue, Prague Castle, Kafka Museum, and numerous other attractions, this is one of Eastern Europe's most fascinating cities. 
In addition to taking some time to taste specialities such as local Czech beers, goulash, dumplings and pastries, we recommend hitting off-the-beaten-path attractions such as the Cubist Museum, one of the city's most interesting gems. Also make sure to stroll across the centuries-old Charles Bridge. 
A must for classical music fans, the quiet village of Heiligenstadt lies just outside of Viennese city limits. Its claim to fame is that Ludwig von Beethoven visited the town many times, composing part of his Second Symphony in a small apartment here in 1802. Arriving for the first time at the tender age of 17 as a student of Mozart's, the young Ludwig would return to Vienna to study under Haydn and stayed until his death in 1827.
What to Do There: Make sure to visit the composer's former residence at 6 Proubusgasse. It's been transformed into a 14-room museum that's only been open since November 2017. Toward the end of his life when Beethoven was losing his hearing, he wrote the Heiligenstadt Testament here, an unsent missive to his brothers that reveals much about the composer's suffering.
The permanent collection tells the story of that famous letter and displays numerous personal artefacts of Beethoven's, musical equipment and other objects of interest. 
Also, Beethoven, who eventually moved to Vienna, is buried in the city's biggest cemetery at Zentralfriedhof. There are many other sites around the Austrian capital that can be visited as part of an informal "Beethoven tour"—the new museum being one of them. For information on visiting the Beethoven Museum, visit this page.
TripSavvy / Christopher Larson
This iconic city served as the setting for the beloved movie "The Sound of Music." Salzburg is roughly two and a half hours away from Vienna by train. If you're looking for a slice of the idyllic Austrian atmosphere you've so often heard about, a trip to this city near the German border is well worth a try. Offering views of the Eastern Alps, Salzburg is surrounded by picturesque mountains.
What to Do There: Famous denizens include Mozart, and classical music fans can visit his birthplace at the popular museum that stands here.
Make sure to spend a few hours roaming around the Baroque Altstadt (Old Town), which has been recognized as a UNESCO World Heritage site. Noteworthy sights and attractions there include the Mirabell Palace and its sumptuous formal gardens (reportedly a favorite playground of the Von Trapp kids), Salzburg Cathedral, and the Residentzplatz, an immense square in the city centre that's dominated by the Residenzbrunnen, a stunning fountain crafted in marble. 
Otherwise, a stop at Hohensalzburg Castle is another good option, as is a walk along the gorgeous banks of the Salzach river. You can even take a sightseeing cruise on the river to rest your feet for a stretch. 
Austria was a vibrant and important part of ancient Rome's nexus of power and influence within Europe. Located just east of Vienna via a short (and inexpensive) local train, the Archaeological Park at Carnantum features some impressive Roman ruins, reconstructed buildings and an engaging permanent exhibition that brings the 1st Century BC town back to life. 
For anyone interested in history and archaeology, this makes an ideal and easy day trip. There are plenty of activities designed for kids, too, so a family outing is certainly possible here. 
What to Do There: During its heyday, Carnantum was home to some 50,000 people. Come see the reconstructed buildings at the park. These include elaborate Roman baths, or Thermae, stately houses of wealthy citizens, and even part of an arena that once served as a gladiator school. The latter was only discovered in 2011. 
For more Information on the park, tickets and getting there from Vienna, see this page at the official website.
The Vienna Woods—part of the lower foothills of the Alps—are immense, full of easy walking trails, heurige for wine tasting and casual meals, and the Kahlenberg, a small mountain popular for its panoramic views. 
What to Do There: On a clear day, the Kahlenberg viewpoint affords visitors incredible vantages over the entire city and its surroundings. Home to a centuries-old monastery and the Baroque St Joseph's Church, the mountain also features a large tower, the Stefaniewarte, that was built in the late 19th century in honor of the Crown Princess Stefanie of Belgium. From here, you can enjoy the panoramic terrace before accessing the many walking paths that wind through the Vienna Woods. If you start early enough, you can even walk the whole way back to the city (about 4.5 hours in total). For lovers of the outdoors, spending some time on these trails is highly recommended—UNESCO even named the Woods a Biosphere Reserve, owing to their outstanding natural beauty and diversity. Some 2,000 plant species and 150 bird species, including endangered ones, inhabit the sprawling forest. 
For information in English on the Woods, walking trails and getting there from the city center by tram or bus, see this page.
The Austrian capital has a winemaking history that stretches back to the 12th century. Some 630 producers in the greater metropolitan area cultivate wine from 1,680 acres of vineyards, mostly producing crisp whites such as Gruner Vetliner and Riesling. There are an estimated 180 wine taverns clustered around the city and in suburbs, and many wine bars, or vinotheks lure patrons from within the city center. Most first-time visitors aren't especially aware, however, that wine-tasting opportunities are so abundant here. From traditional vineyard estates called Heurigen (pronounced "hoy-reh-gehn") to top-rate wine bars, these are ten of the best places to taste wine in Vienna.
Before you set out to explore some of the spots on our list, make sure to check out the Vienna Heurigen Express, which offers a hop-on, hop-off tour through the vineyards and estates around the city. This is an especially good option if you want to avoid driving but still plan to visit several vineyards and heurigen in a single day. There are two routes available, giving you plenty of options for exploring the area's many idyllic taverns and wineries. Also please be aware that most heurigen are open only during high season (roughly late April through October), and many close on public holidays. 
The Buschenschank Stift St. Peter 
One of the oldest and loveliest heurige in the greater Vienna region, the Buschenschank Stift St. Peter Wine Tavern is hugely popular with locals for its excellent wines and historic grounds. The site has been the property of the Benedictine Monks of St. Peter since the year 104; the order has produced wine here since around the same time. 
Easily accessible by a tram that heads south from the city center, the tavern is located in vineyards situated in the town of Oberlaa, offering an easy escape from the urban hustle-and-bustle in under an hour. Enjoy the latest harvests of house wines made to this day by the Benedictine community, nosh on a plate of Austrian breads, cheeses, charcuterie, and salads, and take in a traditional folk music show. Inside the cheerful yellow buildings with rustic stone interiors, you'll feel transported to a distant medieval era. In the late spring and summer, the outdoor terrace area is pleasant, noisy and joyful, and on hot days there's something refreshing and relaxing about sipping a chilled glass of Konventwein (literally, convent wine), Gruner Vetliner, or Rhein Riesling. 
Location: Rupertusplatz 5, 1170 Vienna (Tram station: Dornbacher Strasse; Buses: Take Line 44 A to Heuberggasse)
Mayer am Nussberg  
Another much-prized local winery and heurige close to the city limits, Mayer am Nussberg is plunged in the verdant, hilly belt known as Kahlenberg, where numerous winemakers and historic taverns abound. Affording gorgeous views over the city, this Buschenschank (a Viennese term for wine taverns that also offer lodging to visitors, traditionally designated by wooden bundles hung over the entrance) is popular for very good reason.
Nestled in the rustic town of Grinzig, the inn offers a lovely selection of locally produced wines from Gruner Vetliner to Gemischter Satz and a refreshing sparkling rosé. The restaurant serves traditional Austrian fare in generous portions. A large, pleasant outdoor terrace area complete with comfortable table seating and chaises lounges is perfect for lazy spring or summer afternoons. Try hiking from Nussdorf to the inn—it takes less than half an hour on average and affords both fresh air and lovely photo opportunities. 
Location: Kahlenberger Straße bei Nr. 210, 1190 Vienna. Bus: Take Line 38A to the Kahlenburg bus station; walk 15-20 minutes through the vineyards to the heurige. This tavern is also served by the Vienna Heurigen Express hop-on, hop off bus service, departing from Nussdorf. Alternatively, take the tram Line D from the city center to Nussdorf, Beethovengan and follow the trail towards Kahlenberg and wineries-- with the aid of Google Maps or a GPS, of course. 
Cobenzl Winery
Also located in the storybook-pretty area of Grinzig, Cobenzl Vineyards produces wines from around 150 acres of vineyards nestled close to the Danube river. Their cellars, which offer tastings and tours for those interested are complemented by an onsite restaurant and lush gardens popular with locals, especially during the warm summer months. 
The winery produces everything from crisp whites, such as Gruner Vetliner and Riesling, to fuller-bodied red wines, as well as a mixed-grape varietal wine known locally as "Wiener Gemischte Satz." Make sure to try the latter at least once. Composed of up to 20 different varieties of grapes, it's certainly a distinctive white native to Vienna.
This winery's focus on sustainable agriculture and modern winemaking will interest anyone wishing to learn more about more recent techniques. Cobenzl also keeps several colonies of local bees that produce organic honey right onsite. 
Location: Gölsdorfgasse 2, 1010 Vienna (Tram station: Marienbrucke; U-Bahn station: Schottenring) 
Unger und Klein 
This elegant yet cozy wine bar and shop located in the historic city center (and close to the banks of the Danube River) has been a staple in the Austrian capital for over 20 years. Offering dozens of wines from around the world, as well as several house wines produced in partnership with local wineries (reds, whites, and rosés alike), Unger und Klein also serves a variety of nibbles, from cheese and Italian-style antipasti to traditional Austrian cold cuts. It's often packed, especially after work hours on weekdays and during the weekend. 
The principle? Choose a bottle off the shelf, and if you want to drink in, you'll pay a corkage fee to sit and enjoy. The staff is reputed as helpful and friendly, too. 
A word of caution: Some travelers have reported this bar as being quite smoky. Since Austrian anti-smoking laws are currently in flux, with recent legislation against smoking indoors to possibly be overturned, it may be best to avoid this spot if you're sensitive to cigarette smoke. 
Location: Gölsdorfgasse 2, 1010 Vienna (Tram station: Marienbrucke; U-Bahn station: Schottenring) 
 Courtesy of Kierlinger
With a history stretching back some 200 years, this heurige is easy to access from the city center by tram or bus and is pleasantly located close to the riverbanks of the Danube. Like many of the city's most-popular wine taverns and vineyard estates, it's located in the green forested area known as Kahlenberg, part of the Vienna Woods. It makes for an ideal and easy day trip from the city center since it's only about 30 minutes away. 
The cheerful yellow tavern has won numerous awards for its local wines and delicious traditional dishes, making it one of the most coveted heurigen in the region. The outdoor garden offers shade under old chestnut and lime trees, while on rainy days the countrified interior of the tavern is the perfect place to get away from the wet with a glass of white and deliciously seasoned platters. Schnitzel, potato salad, hearty breads and cheeses, and homemade cakes are among the traditional Austrian and Viennese dishes and specialities you can sample at Kierlinger's numerous buffets, alongside an impressive list of wines. 
Location: Kahlenberger Str. 20, 1190 Vienna (Tram station: Nussdorf S (Line D); Bus: Take line S 40 to the Wien Nussdorf Banhof station) 
Part wine shop and part bar/restaurant, Wein & Cohas several locations throughout the city, including three in the center. While this isn't necessarily the first place most would beeline to for a late night of sipping wine and indulging in weighty conversation, the local chain offers a simple, pleasant way to familiarize yourself with Austrian wines and perhaps come away with a bottle. The concept is simple: choose among hundreds of bottles of Austrian, European, and global origin in the dedicated cellar, and ask for one of the staff members to regale you with a tasting or two at the bar.
The decor is modern, bright, and friendly, and if you're hankering for a light bite, you can choose from among cheese and charcuterie platters, soups, and salads and other tasty local fare. The Stephansplatz bar has a pleasant terrace where you can enjoy balmy spring or summer evenings, too. One thing that may prove an attractive plus for many patrons, especially while anti-smoking legislation remains a big question mark in Austria, is that smoking isn't permitted inside at any of Wein & Co's locations. 
Location: Jasomirgottstraße 3, 1010 Vienna (UBahn/underground station: Stephansplatz)
Courtesy of Heuriger Wolff
This charming spot first opened its doors in 1609 and is one of the oldest and most traditional of the local heurigen in the greater Viennese region. Well-known for its high-quality house wines and Austrian treats from savory to sweet, the Heuriger Wolff is situated in the sleepy Viennese district known as Neustift am Walde, a countrified, charming area full of vineyards and wine taverns. You can even visit this one as part of a "heurige-hop" around the area if you want to get a large local sampling. 
With its yellow and green tavern and inviting garden area complete with large picnic tables and flowering plants, this is a lovely place to perch for a couple of glasses of house whites or reds. If your appetite calls for it, enjoy various Viennese delicacies at the buffet, serving everything from salads to Wiener Schnitzel and apple strudel. 
Location: Rathstraße 44-50, 1190 Vienna (Bus: Take lines 35A, 43B or N35 to the Neustift am Walde station, then walk five minutes east to the heurige.) 
Bernreiter 
Owned by the wine grower and restaurateur Peter Bernreiter, this appealing winery and tavern is located in the Jedlersdorf district of Vienna north of the Danube and is easily reached by tram. 
Offering a generous list of locally made wines, from Chardonnay to Gruner Vetliner and Weissburgunder, Bernreiter is a sprawling restaurant that offers a buffet with plenty of options for lunch or dinner. Even vegetarians will find something other than bread, cheese, and potato salad here: non-meat options include fried vegetables and vegetarian casseroles. 
This popular local tavern and winery is open year-round, meaning that if you visit the Austrian capital during low season, you can still get a taste of the distinctive Viennese heurige culture. 
Location: Jedlersdorf, Amtsstraße 24-26, 1210 Vienna (Tram station: Take line 30 or 31 to Carabelligasse ) 
Conveniently located between central Stephansplatz and the Vienna Mitte railway station, the Vinothek Der Wein has gained praise from wine and food aficionados for its excellent selection of Austrian wines, cheese and tapas plates, and attentive service. There's a modest but decent list of wines to try by the glass from Austrian Gewurtztraminer whites to reds from Napa Valley, Italy, or Bordeaux. Two small corners of the large wine shop are fitted with tables for tasting and enjoying a light meal. 
This is an especially good choice for a last-minute glass at the end of your stay on your way back to the airport. You might indulge in a tasting and/or simple dinner before hopping on the city airport train and catching your flight home. 
Location: Riemergasse 6, 1010 Vienna (U-Bahn/Underground station: Stephansplatz)
Courtesy of Vinothek St Stephan
Yet another vinothek (wine emporium) in close reach of the central hub of Stephansplatz, the Vintothek St. Stephan claims to be the city's first of its kind, having opened in 1976. The atmosphere is classic and prestigious here, and the Austrian wine list is extensive—choose between whites, reds, rosés and ports hailing from around Vienna, the Wachau Valley, and numerous other prestigious vintnering regions.  In addition to the impressive collection of local wines, the Vinothek also sells and serves bottles from important vintnering regions around the globe, from France and Argentina to South Africa and California.  The bar also serves a variety of gins, sherries, craft beers, spirits, and whiskies, including rums from Martinique and Cuba and absinthe from Spain. You can accompany your meal with cheese and charcuterie plates or even fine caviar. 
Prices here are a bit steeper than elsewhere, but the focus is on quality and elegance. If you're after a classic Viennese night out near St. Stephan's Cathedral, this might be the place to try. 
Location: Stephansplatz 6, 1010, 1010 Vienna (UBahn/underground station: Stephansplatz)
Best Overall: Hotel Sans Souci Wien — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Located on the edge of the MuseumsQuartier, it reflects the area’s artistic heritage within its own walls."
Best Budget: magdas Hotel — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"A unique option for budget travelers with a social conscience. It provides employment...for refugees but has a worldly atmosphere for guests."
Best Boutique: The Guesthouse Vienna — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"This design-led boutique markets itself as a “home away from home"—and it's true, assuming that your home is an enclave of style and refinement."
Best for Families: Boutiquehotel Stadthalle Wien — See Rates at tripadvisor.co.za
"Its quiet location is a blessing for young families; although excellent transport links keep the best of Vienna’s sights within easy reach."
Best for Romance: Hotel Altstadt Vienna — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Surrounded by galleries in the MuseumsQuartier district, Hotel Altstadt Vienna is a romantic choice for culture-loving couples."
Best Luxury: Hotel Sacher Wien — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Takes indulgence to new levels. Expect magnificent original artworks, a crackling fireplace, and a stunning terrace."
Best for Nightlife: Sofitel Vienna Stephansdom — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"A short walk from some of the city’s best bars and clubs. For sophisticated revelers, it’s also a party destination in its own right."
Best Business: Hotel am Stephansplatz — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"Despite its boutique feel, this independent hotel caters to corporate travelers with free high-speed Wi-Fi and two dedicated meeting rooms."
Best B&B: Schreiners Essen und Wohnen — See Rates at TripAdvisor
"A traditional Viennese townhouse with rustic decor and unfailingly friendly service."
Courtesy of Hotel Sans Souci Wien
Five-star Hotel Sans Souci Wien is beloved by visitors to Austria’s capital - as proved by its top rating on TripAdvisor. Located on the edge of the MuseumsQuartier, it reflects the area’s artistic heritage within its own walls. Step through the white wedding cake exterior into the personal art gallery of owner Norbert Winkelmayer, with highlights including original works by Lichtenstein and Picasso. The decor is a playful blend of contemporary and antique. And the service? It's flawless from check in to check out.
All rooms and suites are designed for comfort and style. Expect premium mattresses, a pillow menu, a luxurious circular bathtub and free high-speed Wi-Fi. Breakfast is also included and comprises a veritable spread of regional fruits, fresh breads and eggs cooked especially to order. Throughout the rest of the day, sample the finest modern Austrian cuisine at Veranda restaurant. Le Bar temps with an astounding array of different champagnes, while the basement spa is a sanctuary complete with a sauna and a chandelier-hung indoor pool.
Courtesy of magdas HOTEL
Located on the edge of famous Vienna park the Prater, magdas Hotel is a unique option for budget travelers with a social conscience. It provides employment and upliftment for refugees, but has a worldly atmosphere for guests. Together, the hotel staff speak 23 languages. There are 88 rooms, all of them basic and comfortable with recycled furniture and artworks donated by the Academy of Fine Arts.
For the most economic stay, choose a Classic Double Room. There are no frills (if you want to watch TV, you can rent a tablet from reception), but the bed is comfortable, the ensuite bathroom boasts organic toiletries and the Wi-Fi is free. Breakfast features fair trade coffee and honey from the beehives kept on the roof. There’s a beautiful garden with an open-air cinema, while the salon is a cozy meeting place with a bar, a café and changing art exhibits. Keep an eye out for live music events.
Courtesy of The Guesthouse Vienna
From The Guesthouse Vienna, it’s a few short steps to the Albertina, a world-famous art gallery housed in the largest of the Habsburg residential palaces. This design-led boutique markets itself as a “home away from home” - and it’s true, assuming that your home is an enclave of style and refinement. British designer Sir Terence Conran has succeeded in infusing The Guesthouse with just the right blend of comfort and elegance.
All of the 39 rooms include a Bang & Olufsen entertainment system, a heated bathroom and an espresso machine. Best of all, an in-room wine fridge treats you to free wine, beer and soft drinks. Upgrade to a higher level room for a bathtub and stunning views of landmarks such as the Vienna State Opera and St. Stephen’s Cathedral. All-day breakfast is served at cozy restaurant Brasserie & Bakery, alongside a mouthwatering list of Austrian and French specialties.
Courtesy of Boutique Hotel Stadthalle
Eco-friendly Boutiquehotel Stadthalle Wien is located a 15-minute drive from the city center, near kid-friendly Schönbrunn Palace and Zoo. Its quiet location is a blessing for young families; although excellent transport links keep the best of Vienna’s sights within easy reach. A courtyard and garden offer plenty of opportunities for al fresco family bonding, while the rooftop lavender garden adds a touch of novelty in summer.
The Family Room allows for privacy with two separate bedrooms. Child-friendly touches include a painting book, a tooth-brushing stool in the ensuite bathroom and a satellite TV for movies before bedtime. Cribs are available upon request. Children under the age of six stay for free, while discounted rates for older kids help you to keep your vacation within budget. The hotel offers an organic breakfast buffet and there are several restaurants nearby.
Courtesy of Hotel Altstadt Vienna
Surrounded by galleries in the MuseumsQuartier district, Hotel Altstadt Vienna is a romantic choice for culture-loving couples. The building dates back to 1902, but its interiors are a celebration of contemporary eclecticism. On the way to your uniquely decorated room or suite, stop to admire masterpieces by the likes of Warhol and Liebowitz. All rooms pamper guests with a minibar, a Nespresso machine and luxury Malin+Goetz toiletries.
For the most romantic stay, however, upgrade to a suite with a stand-alone bathtub and an intimate living area. The hotel’s delightfully simple breakfast buffet is served until late, allowing you the decadence of lazy mornings spent in bed together. Treat yourselves to tea and homemade cake every afternoon, then share gourmet small plates and fine wines by the fireplace in the Red Salon.
Courtesy of Hotel Sacher Wien
Five-star Hotel Sacher Wien is the standard bearer for old-world luxury in Vienna. Located a short stroll from 13th-century palace the Hofburg, it resembles a royal residence itself - with crystal chandeliers, silk wallpaper and ornate oil paintings. Over the years, it has played host to the likes of JFK and Queen Elizabeth. Luxury touches in the rooms include a TV in the bathroom mirror and 24-hour room service.
The Penthouse Presidential Suite takes indulgence to new levels. Expect magnificent original artworks, a crackling fireplace and a stunning terrace with unforgettable rooftop views. The hotel’s dining options are equally impressive. At Rote Bar, enjoy traditional Viennese cuisine and live piano music or head to Blaue Bar for pre-opera cocktails. The spa includes a fitness center and a Finnish sauna.
Courtesy of Sofitel Vienna Stephansdom
Situated on the north bank of the Danube River, Sofitel Vienna Stephansdom is a short walk from some of the city’s best bars and clubs. For sophisticated revelers, it’s also a party destination in its own right. Eighteenth-floor Das LOFT restaurant and bar impresses with floor-to-ceiling city panoramas. Start the evening’s festivities with Michelin Plate-awarded cuisine before sampling the impressive wine list. Live DJs add to the atmosphere on Thursdays and Fridays, keeping the party going until 2 a.m. The hotel also features a Viennese coffee shop (perfect for next-day revival), as well as a luxury spa. After a late night, all rooms and suites invite you to relax with free Wi-Fi, a Bose sound system and a decadent bathroom tub.
Courtesy of Hotel Am Stephansplatz
Four-star Hotel am Stephansplatz offers an ideal location in the city center. Despite its boutique feel, this independent hotel caters to corporate travelers with free high-speed Wi-Fi and two dedicated meeting rooms. The largest of these can accommodate up to 35 delegates. Business Rooms are designed for convenience, with a spacious work desk, a laptop-sized safe and a satellite TV for unwinding in the evenings. Triple-insulated windows and a cold foam mattress guarantee a good night’s sleep. After work, meet your colleagues for happy hour cocktails and antipasti at Café Bar Aragall. Other useful amenities include a fitness room and sauna.
Courtesy of Schreiners Wohnen
Located west of the city center and within walking distance of the MuseumsQuartier, Schreiners Essen und Wohen is a traditional Viennese townhouse with rustic decor and unfailingly friendly service. There are just five guestrooms, all of which have a balcony or terrace overlooking the picturesque garden. Comforts include a King bed, cable TV, a Nespresso coffee machine and a rainforest shower. Breakfast is served in the B&B’s award-winning restaurant. In the evening, pair Austrian beer or wine with classic dishes made using the finest local and seasonal ingredients. 
With a population of nearly 2 million, a rich cultural scene, and a lively and quite visible gay and lesbian community, the Austrian capital city of Vienna is one of central Europe's top destinations year-round, and it's an especially lovely place to visit during Vienna Gay Pride, which is held over a week in mid- to late June. The dates this year are June 14 to June 18, 2016.
Traditionally, the major components of Vienna Gay Pride are the Pride Village, held in the city's very prominent and centrally located City Hall Square, or Wiener Rathausplatz, through the five days of Pride, beginning on Tuesday, June 14 (there may be changes to Pride Village this year; check the Pride website for updates). And on Saturday, June 18, the colorful Rainbow Parade (Regenbogenparade) proceeds through the city. Here's a full schedule of Vienna Gay Pride events.
Vienna Gay Resources
Plenty of gay bars and nightclubs as well as gay-popular restaurants, hotels, and shops have special events and parties throughout Pride Weekend. Check the Patroc Vienna Gay Guide and Nighttours Vienna Gay Guide for guidance on the city's LGBT scene. Also take a look at the excellent GLBT site produced by the city's official tourism organization, the Vienna Tourist Board.
Vienna, one of Europe's gourmet capitals for both food and wine, is home to many delicious local treats. With a local culinary scene that often rivals those of Paris or London all while seeming quaint and traditional, the city is a wonderful place to try some of the country's most distinctive dishes, sweets, and drinks. Locavores will especially appreciate the focus on fresh, locally sourced ingredients and excellent produce in many restaurants and eateries around town. What's more, as the former capital of the sprawling Habsburg Empire, the Austrian capital has adopted specialties from around the world and made them their own. From schnitzel to mouthwatering cakes, sausages and hearty stews, these are the top 10 Austrian foods to try in Vienna.
One of Austria's national dishes, Wiener Schnitzel is certainly its most successful export. Made from a thin cutlet of veal that's breaded and then pan-fried in butter or oil, schnitzel is cheerfully served in restaurants and eateries around the capital. Simple yet delicious, it's a huge crowd-pleaser, and even kids tend to love it.
Typically garnished with lemon and fresh parsley, it's often served with a simple salad with vinaigrette, Austrian potato salad (see more below), and steamed potatoes or French fries. A cold Austrian lager or glass of local Gruner Veltliner white wine makes an excellent accompaniment.
Where to Try It: ​Figlmuller Wollzeile is a casual sit-down restaurant reputed as one Vienna's best spots for schnitzel and is located in the city center. Meanwhile, Schnitzelwirt serves some 15 varieties of schnitzel including pork, chicken and turkey. Finally, for vegetarians who don't want to miss out on this iconic Austrian dishe, Restaurant Landia (Ahornergasse 4) is coveted by non-meat eaters for their reputedly delicious veggie schnitzel.
The Sachertorte is a proud symbol of the Austrian capital. It's a dense, chocolate sponge cake made with thin layers of apricot jam that's topped with a semi-firm chocolate icing.
Where to Try It: This is the signature creation of the Sacher Hotel, an institution in the former Imperial city. But a rival bakery, Demel, also fashioned their own version of the beloved cake, using only a single rather than a double layer of marillenmarmelade (Austrian for apricot jam). Dubbing their own cake the "Demel's Sachertorte," the confectionary sparked a legal dispute and enduring rivalry: one that locals and tourists thoroughly enjoy weighing in on. Both cakes are delicious alongside a Viennese "melange" coffee (see below) or spicy black tea.
This Hungarian import has become hugely popular in Vienna and around Austria, adapted locally to become its own distinctive dish. A hearty beef stew seasoned with tomatoes, onion, and paprika, the version you'll most likely taste in Vienna often includes Semmelknödel (dumplings). This is a dish that's perfect for a cold winter's day. Austrian goulash pairs well with a heartier beer or a glass of spicy, rich Zweigelt wine, one of Austria's rare reds.
Where to Try It: If you're interested in sampling many different varieties of goulash, try dining at the Gulaschmuseum (Schulerstraße 20), not far from the Wien Mitte train station. Ilona Stuberl (Braunerstraße 2) is also reputed for its excellent goulash, as is Puerstner (Riemergasse 10). Even closer to the city center near the Albertina Museum, Cafe Mozart is also known to make a delicious version of this dish.
 Calvin Chan Wai Meng/Getty Images 
Another Austrian delicacy loved around the world, the Apfelstrudel gained in popularity around Eastern Europe under the influence of the Habsburg empire. Sold in bakeries, cafes, and restaurants around Vienna, this is a delicate counterpoint to the slightly heavier (and generally sweeter) American apple pie. It's typically made with light, crisp pastry dough that's stretched and thinned, filled with apples, sugar, raisins, lemon, rum, cinnamon, and cloves. Often, the strudel is garnished with breadcrumbs mixed with nuts and dusted with powdered sugar.
It's absolutely delicious accompanied with Viennese coffee or black tea. Strudels can also be found filled with other varieties of fruits, including berries and apricots.
Where to Try It: Pop into any local bakery to find it. Many, especially those bakery-cafes with eating-in options, will even warm them up for you. Otherwise, try sitting in at local favorites such as Cafe Aida, with its retro-pink signage and 1950s-style interiors. Locations are scattered around the city. Kaffe Alt Wien (9 Bäckerstrasse), is also reputed for its delicious strudels.
One local delight that we recommend trying if you're visiting in the spring is asparagus. Austria and Vienna offer some of the world's most delicious green and white asparagus, invariably prepared in creative, fresh ways.
Starting in late April or early May, menus at many local restaurants in Vienna start prominently featuring seasonal specials with Spargel. Sometimes, it's served simply with a bit of butter and lemon and doused in breadcrumbs; other times it's made into deliciously fresh soups or wrapped in prosciutto and slathered with hollandaise sauce. White asparagus, which is larger and thicker, is a particular favorite in the spring. Enjoy it with a side of parsley potatoes and a glass of crisp, equally fresh Gruner Veltliner wine.
Some places even serve "Spargel" that's been fried in breadcrumbs, Schnitzel-style. In short, asparagus lovers will find no shortage of delicious ways to enjoy this seasonal treat.
Jürgen Lenk/Wikimedia Commons/CC BY-SA 3.0
Quite different from its North American counterpart, there's no mayonnaise to be found in this fresh, healthy salad. Instead, it's prepared with white wine vinegar, a bit of mustard, red onions, chives, and a dash of salt and pepper. Some recipes also include a bit of chicken or meat stock, so if ordering as a vegetarian or vegan you may want to ask if the salad contains any meat products.
This ubiquitous salad pairs beautifully with almost anything: schnitzel, sausages, fresh asparagus, or other seasonal vegetables. It's best enjoyed cold, although in the winter many restaurants serve it warm.
Where to Try It: Like schnitzel, Erdäpfelsalat is pretty ubiquitous, and most full-service restaurants will offer it as a side dish. The aforementioned Figlmuller restaurant (Wollzeile 5) makes an especially delicious and fresh version of this salad, making it a great stop for trying both Wiener Schnitzel and potato salad.
Koboko/Wikimedia Commons/CC BY-SA 3.0
These delicious plum jam turnovers are about as Austrian as you can get. Difficult to find outside of Austria, Germany, and Eastern Europe, they originally hail from neighboring Bohemia (now the Czech Republic) but have become a staple in Austrian kitchens.
The delicate pastries, made with a distinctive potato dough, are filled with a combination of plum jam, rum or plum schnapps, then topped with a mixture of breadcrumbs, butter, and walnuts. A bit of cinnamon and vanilla add aroma and a hint of spice. Some restaurants serve them with chocolate sauce or sugar.
Where to Try It: Many of the traditional cafes and restaurants in Vienna serve this typical delicacy, and the Schick hotel is also well known for their own version. Some local bakeries also make their own versions as well.
Westend61/Getty Images 
Another local specialty for meat lovers is Tafelspitz, a quintessentially Austrian dish made with tender filet of beef or veal gently boiled in broth. Typically served with seasonal vegetables or with applesauce and horseradish, this dish is enjoyed all across the country, especially in fall and winter.
Accompanied by a good Austrian white or spicy red wine, Tafelspitz is a great alternative for those wishing to taste one of the country's national dishes but is looking for a healthier option.
Where to Try It: Plachutta Wollzwille, a historic restaurant near the St-Stephens Cathedral, is well known for its version of this iconic dish. Restaurant Ofenloch has also received rave reviews from travelers for its Tafelspitz. Many other traditional restaurants in the city include it on their standard menus as well.
Like Paris and Rome, Vienna is a European coffee capital. Cafes sprung up all around the city in the 18th through 20th centuries and have become fixtures of cultural and culinary life in the Austrian capital.
The famed Viennese melange, similar to a cappuccino but usually without cocoa powder, is topped with half hot milk and half foamed milk. Cappuccinos in Austria are generally topped with whipped cream, rather than milk. If you're looking for an Americano, ask for a Verlängerter (literally, "longer"); plain coffee with cream is a Brauner, and an espresso or double espresso is referred to as a Schwartzer.
Meanwhile, you can also enjoy local specialties with dramatic names: the Franziskaner (Franciscan Monk) is similar to a melange but is topped with whipped cream rather than foamed milk, while a Mozart is a true dessert in its own right: a double espresso served with a big mound of whip cream and served with a small glass of sherry.
Where to Try It: Some of the best cafes in the capital to enjoy typical Viennese coffee and cake near the city center include Cafe Pruckel, Cafe Landtmann, Cafe Central, Cafe Hawelka, and Cafe Ritter.
Simple yet renowned for their flavor, these sausages are traditionally made from both beef and pork, encased in sheeps' intestine. Served with sharp mustard, they are perfectly accompanied with Austrian potato salad, radishes, spring asparagus, and other fresh vegetables.
Many people enjoy the simplicity and lower cost of procuring these goodies from street vendors, slathering them with mustard and gobbling them down right on the street. Whether in summer or winter, they make an excellent quick snack or simple meal (unless you're a vegetarian or vegan, that is).
Where to Try It: In the city center, around the Ringstrasse and the old inner imperial city, there are numerous popular street vendors, or Wurstelstande, to choose from. Additionally, a fun place to wander and try out some local street food (including these ever-present sausages) is the Naschmarkt, a popular semi-permanent market where produce stands and casual restaurants serve a variety of goodies. In the summer, an afternoon out at the Prater, a sprawling, leafy park complete with a Ferris wheel, rides, and traditional food stands, is also a great spot to procure these.
Looming high over the Austrian capital of Vienna, the St. Stephen's Cathedral is both a symbol of the current-day city and proof of its centuries-long history. Hundreds of years before the powerful Habsburg Empire reconstructed the city in their own image, St. Stephen's already dominated the horizon. With its four beautiful, imposing towers and distinctive tiled rooftops, the Cathedral is a breathtaking sight to behold. No wonder it's routinely cited in guidebooks as one of the top attractions to see in Vienna, especially on a first trip. Since this is among the tallest religious structures in the world, climbing the South Tower's more than 300 steps to the top also affords fantastic panoramic views of the whole city—definitely a must if you're willing and able.
It would be a mistake to view this masterpiece of Romanesque and Gothic architecture as somehow frozen in time. In reality, it has evolved over many centuries along with the city itself, renovated and expanded at numerous junctures in history. The edifice we see today was first constructed during the 12th century and commissioned by Leopold IV. Built to recognize the growing importance of Vienna as a center of religious worship as well as trade, the medieval construction was superimposed on the ruins of two earlier churches. This included a parish church and an even older one believed to date as far back as the 5th century. Archaeological evidence also suggests that a large Roman-era cemetery lies underneath the Cathedral; digs here have revealed graves that were apparently created during the 4th century. 
The initial, mostly Romanesque-style church was initially completed in 1160, but expansion and renovations were all but constant through the 17th century. Romanesque towers and walls were built during the early 13th century, and part of that construction remains to this day. 
The Great Fire and Reconsecration: A massive fire gutted and largely destroyed St. Stephen's during the mid-13th century, leading to an overhaul of the existing structure that included surviving towers. There was a new consecration in April 1263, and this occasion is commemorated every year through the ringing of the emblematic, enormous Pummerin bell for a total of three minutes. 
High-Gothic Expansion: During the early 14th century, King Albert I commissioned a three-knave choir in the Gothic style, further expanding the then-parish church and adding sumptuous details that remain to this day. Other monarchs continued the expansion throughout the late medieval period, progressively replacing the old Romanesque elements until the entire former edifice had been transformed. New towers and vaulting were completed in the late 14th century. Remodeling and reconstruction work continued on the exteriors and interiors alike through the Baroque period (17th and 18th centuries).  
Establishing the Vienna Diocese: The parish church was transformed into a Cathedral and became the seat of the new Diocese of Vienna. It was established formally in January 1469, with St. Stephen's Cathedral designated as its mother church. In 1722, under the command of Pope Innocent XIII, it became the seat of the Vienna Archbishop. 
World War II and Beyond: As World War II was drawing to a close and Nazi-occupied Vienna was under siege by Allied troops, the Cathedral was spared from destruction when German Captain Gerhard Klinkicht apparently disobeyed orders to "fire a hundred shells" at it, which would completely destroy it. Nevertheless, fires from nearby riots eventually reached the Cathedral, causing its roof to catch fire and collapse. Unfortunately, some of the most ornate choir stalls, dating to the late 15th century, could not be salvaged. Shortly following the end of the war, St. Stephen's was rebuilt once again, reopening fully in 1952. Its present-day guise, including the colorful imperial rooftop tiles that give the Cathedral its distinctive appearance and date to the Habsburg dynasty, has not changed tremendously from the mid-20th century. 
There's a lot to see at St. Stephen's, so it's essential to plan adequate time for your visit. If you wish to focus on only the main interiors of the Cathedral as well as the facade, budget an hour; for a full guided tour that includes the towers, catacombs and reliquaries, budget two and a half hours. 
The Facade and Four Towers: The imposing height of the Cathedral easily catches the eye, even from relatively far away. As a medieval seat of the Vienna Diocese, this grandeur was both willful and symbolically important. Admire the flamboyant Cathedral's four tall towers from different viewpoints. Then, climb up the towers for remarkable views over the entire city, especially from the South tower since spire reaches the highest point in the city at 136 meters (446 feet). Try going on a clear day for the best vantages. 
Take note of the colorful, unusually bright tiles that decorate the rooftops. Numbering an incredible 230,000, these come together to form a mosaic pattern in the shape of Vienna's coat of arms, as well as the Imperial double-headed Eagle that emblematizes the Habsburg dynasty. The rooftops themselves are dramatically steep, lending additional grace and unusually sharp lines to the facade. 
The Bells: The towers house 23 bells, and some of them are the most beautiful and elaborate in Europe. The grandest of these by far is the Pummerin bell situated within the North Tower. At just over 44 pounds in weight, it's the second-largest chimed church bell in Europe.  
The Interior: The ornate interiors greatly reflect a period of Baroque renovation during the 17th century, melding with earlier high-Gothic elements from the Cathedral's medieval period. 
Altars: There are over 40 of these throughout the church, including in numerous chapels. One to focus your attention on is the High Altar, built in the mid-17th century. Representing the stoning of St. Stephen himself, the altar is decorated with figures of many other patron saints. The Wiener Neustädter Altar is also beautiful and worth admiring. It dates to the mid-15th century and was commissioned by the Emperor Frederick III; he was laid to rest in the Cathedral and his tomb can be visited there. 
The Pulpit: Make sure to take time to admire the decorative stone pulpit, considered by many art historians to be a masterpiece of the late Gothic period. Each of the four saints on the pulpit represent a different temperament and phase of life. Other decorations on the pulpit include carvings of lizards and toads engaged in a battle between good and evil. 
Under the stairs of the pulpit, you'll find one of the Cathedral's most-emblematic figures. Known as the "Fenstergucker" (window-gawker), the statue is ostensibly a self-portrait of the sculptor who created the pulpit. 
The Chapels and Reliquaries: The Cathedral boasts many ornate chapels and reliquaries. Among the most beautiful and important include the St Katherine's Chapel, located at the base of the South Tower. Here, statues of four evangelists in marble can be admired, as well as figures depicting the twelve apostles, Jesus and, of course, St. Stephen himself. The Chapel of the Cross, meanwhile, harbors the tomb of Prince Eugene of Savoy; a vault here holds three coffins and an urn containing his heart. It was here that a funeral for the composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart was held in December of 1791. The chapel is unfortunately not open to the general public. St. Valentine's Chapel, located just above the Chapel of the Cross, holds the Cathedral's main reliquaries, or objects of sacred religious importance. Hundreds of these are deposited here; more important relics include a piece of the tablecloth thought to have been used during the Last Supper with Christ. 
The Catacombs: The Catacombs underneath the Cathedral are fascinating and can be visited as part of a guided tour. Since St. Stephen's was built atop Roman and early medieval cemeteries and itself has served as a crypt for numerous centuries, visiting the subterranean part of the Church is a way to truly step back in time. 
Notable tombs inside the catacombs include ones holding the remains of the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick III, the Prince Eugene of Savoy, and the "Ducal Crypt," which holds the remains of numerous members of the powerful Habsburg Imperial clan. 
The catacombs are also interesting for their connection to the bubonic plague of 1735—the bones and skulls of some 11,000 people are buried within. Most guided tours allow visitors to see some of these remains, which are a morbid but fascinating sight. 
Vienna is a historic center for classical and choral music, and St. Stephen's has a long legacy in this arena. The composer Haydn once sang in the choir here, and Mozart was married at the Cathedral. Anyone with an interest in classical and choral music should consider attending a concert or musical service while in Vienna. See this page for more information on upcoming concerts and events.
The Cathedral is open year-round, Monday to Saturday from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. and on Sundays and public holidays (including New Year's Day and Christmas Day) from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Entrance to the main areas is free, but taking a paid guided tour is strongly recommended to fully appreciate areas that are otherwise inaccessible to the general public. These include the catacombs and crypt (which hold remarkable tombs of bishops and members of the Habsburg imperial dynasty), the South and North Tower, and restricted areas with precious objects of art and reliquaries. Visit the official website for complete information on guided tours, current prices, and times. 
Certain areas of the Cathedral, including the main entrance, are wheelchair-accessible. Others, including the towers and catacombs, are not. If you're a potential visitor with limited mobility, you can find more information at this page. 
The Cathedral is located at 3 Stephansplatz in central Vienna, on the large and vibrant square that shares its name. The closest U-Bahn (Underground) station is Stephansplatz (Line U3). For more information about planning your visit there, check the official website or the Vienna Tourist Information Office. 
St. Stephen's is in close reach of numerous important sites and attractions in central Vienna. These include the Jewish Museum, an important site of history and memory in a city that saw some 65,000 local Jewish citizens deported to death camps during the reign of Adolf Hitler. 
Stephansplatz itself is also worth admiring as one of Vienna's largest squares, and it's situated in the very center of the city. Make sure to window-shop or embark on a shopping spree on the wide street known as the Graben; Karntner Strasse is also well-known for its lovely, numerous boutiques and shops. 
As Vienna's most popular outdoor market, the Naschmarkt is a popular and fascinating destination in the Austrian capital. It's a colorful, lively place that dates to the late 16th century-- when the area was mostly reserved for farmers selling fresh milk and other dairy products. It was only in the early 20th century that the sprawling modern-day market came into being: at that time, 100 stalls were introduced to accommodate Viennese merchants of all stripes. 
Since then, the market—located in the city center near the grand square at Karlsplatz and stretching toward the Vienna University of Technology—has become the capital's largest and most vibrant outdoor market. Lined with restaurants and terraces, it's also a great place for people-watching and enjoying a drink or meal. Here's how to enjoy it to the fullest. 
There are some 120 different stalls at the market, so it's a good idea to reserve at least an hour and a half to wander around, taking in sights, smells, colors and—if you're lucky enough to be handed a sample or two—flavors. 
Whether you're stocking up for a picnic in a nearby park, taking some goodies home to enjoy later, or just enjoying the commotion and color, the choices seem nearly endless. It's probably a good idea to bring along a couple of sturdy cloth bags if you have them and plenty of cash. If need be, there are ATMs nearby, including one located within the market grounds. 
Hoping to get a taste of the city's famed fresh produce? With so many farms and vineyards outside Vienna, it's no wonder it's lauded for its delicious fresh fruit and vegetables. Dozens of the traditional "huts" are piled high with these, from ripe local strawberries and asparagus (the latter is a real treat in the spring) to peppers, zucchini, and eggplant. 
Fish and meat vendors offer fresh fillets and cuts perfect for a barbecue or formal dinner—ideal if you're staying in self-catering accommodations. 
There are also stalls selling dozens of varieties of local cheeses, as well as huts selling Vtypical Austrian and Viennese specialities like sauerkraut, sausages and other cured meats, and olives.
Mediterranean and Middle Eastern specialties (olive oils, zaatar and other spice mixes, baklava, halvah, and dates) are popular at the market, while Chinese, Indian and Turkish delicacies are the stars of certain stands. 
Sweet tooth? There are several vendors selling cakes, pastries and other sweets. In need of fine cooking oils, mustards, jams, or other condiments? You'll find plenty of those here, too. 
While most people associate the Naschmarkt primarily with delicious food, on Saturday a large flea market springs up on early Saturday morning. The "Flohmarkt" is an ideal destination for antique shopping or rummaging through piles of fascinating old pictures, vintage toys and records, clothes, and even weapons. 
The market is probably the most pleasant and idyllic during the spring and summer months, when you can really enjoy being outdoors and dine in the open air. The best time to hit the market stalls is in the morning when the crowds haven't yet had their pick of choice items, and you can really take the time to explore, snap some photos, and enjoy the experience. We recommend going at around 8:30 or 9:00 a.m. 
For restaurants, make sure to get to your chosen one a bit before lunch or dinnertime in order to snag good seats, especially if you prefer to sit outside. 
The Naschmarkt is conveniently located in the city center, right between the large square known as Karlsplatz and the Kettenbrückengasse station.  
Getting there by Metro is probably the most convenient. The Karlsplatz station is served by lines U1, U2 and U4, while Kettenbrückengasse is served by line U4. You can also reach it by tram: take line 1 or 62 to Karlsplatz, then walk (about five minutes). 
The Naschmarkt's main stalls are open every day of the week except for Sunday. Most of the 100 stalls open at around 6 a.m. and close at 7 or 7:30 p.m. On Saturdays, many close earlier (around 5 to 6 p.m.). 
Meanwhile, the Flohmarkt (flea market) is open every Saturday from around 6:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. 
Finally, restaurant opening days and times are separate; see section below for more details. 
There are a variety of restaurants, cafes, and bars situated on the market, making it a popular place for an after-work gathering with friends, or for a casual meal. You'll be spoiled for choice, too: from the famous Naschmarkt Deli with its traditional sandwiches, charcuterie, and cheeses, to delicious, fresh fish at Umar, to Turkish specialities at Orient & Occident, culinary influences from around the world can be savored here. 
For a full list of restaurants at and around the market, as well as opening times and days, see this page at the Vienna Tourist Office. 
While Vienna is generally a very safe city, with crime levels well below many larger metropolitan areas, open-air markets are prime territory for thieves and pickpockets. Avoid having your wallet and other valuables snagged by taking some sensible precautions. 
This includes wearing a bag that you can wrap around to hold snugly in front—backpacks and shoulder bags should be avoided, as they can be more easily grabbed or discreetly opened. It's best not to carry too much cash with you, but if you must, consider wearing a money belt. Finally, never leave your bag or phone unattended, or even left casually on a table or nearby chair. Pickpockets and thieves can move very quickly. 
The market is in close range of numerous important sights and attractions in the old city. Head over a few blocks northeast to see the iconic art deco building with the dramatic golden dome known as the Secession House, a meeting place for Vienna's Secession artists' group of the late 19th century. Led by Gustav Klimt, the movement ushered Austrian art firmly into modernity. You can see Klimt's famous and monumental "Beethoven Frieze" inside, as well as interesting temporary exhibits. 
Also nearby is the Wiener Staatsoper (Vienna State Opera), with its magnificent neoclassical facade and world-class programming. Whether you take a quick look, go on a guided tour or book tickets to a show, it's a remarkable place. 
Head due north to get to the Museumsquartier, an enormous arts and culture complex that includes gems such as the Leopold Museum and the Vienna Museum of Art History. 
Finally, many of the best coffeehouses in Vienna are located in close reach of the Naschmarkt, especially on and around the old ring road known as the Ringstrasse. There's little better than following a stroll at the market with a Viennese melange and slice of decadent cake. Hop on the tram or go on foot to reach your next gourmet destination. 
