The largest Christmas market in Poland takes place in Krakow at the Main Market Square. Other Polish cities also host Christmas markets, but depending on the size and resources of the city, they may not be quite as expansive as the market in Krakow.
However, if you're shopping for handmade crafts or Polish Christmas decorations, or if you want to sample cold-weather Polish treats, even small Christmas markets will give you an idea of how Poland celebrates this holiday. Historic centers dripping in Christmas lights and squares decorated with trees make Poland's cities and towns even lovelier.
Dates change for Christmas markets from year to year depending on popularity, size, organization, and other factors. However, most Christmas markets run through December and close up shop right before Christmas to give both vendors and shoppers a break for the holidays.
Krakow's Christmas market is a huge annual success. The largest in Poland, it attracts visitors from around the world. Main Market Square, always lively, becomes festive with carriage rides, Christmas decorations, and the smell of mulled wine. Christmas in Krakow is not to be missed.
The Krakow Christmas Market usually opens up towards the end of November and lasts until December 26, although it is often extended to early January because Three Kings Day unofficially marks the end of the Christmas season in Poland.
Warsaw's main Christmas market is held in Castle Square in front of the Royal Castle. However, another Christmas market can be found in front of the Palace of Culture and Science. These festive markets are a great reason to visit the Polish capital in December, when the city is at its most festive.
Wroclaw's Christmas, which dates all the way back to the 16th century, market is held in Wroclaw's Old Town among its historic sights. Children will love the market's fairy-tale forest, where they can watch fairy tales being acted out. With the increasing popularity of holiday markets in Poland, Wroclaw Christmas market is seeing more visitors each year. This, in turn, encourages more vendors to work stalls selling crafts, decorations, and tasty treats that help stave off the chill.
Torun is not as large as other cities in Poland, and the size of its Christmas market certainly reflects that. However, with its medieval charm, Torun looks beautiful when decorated for Christmas. So if you're in the area, there's no reason not to check out the small Christmas market here. Grab a mug of hot mulled wine and go shopping for tree ornaments that you can either bring home or give as gifts. This city is particularly well-known for its gingerbread, which they have been making it since the 14th century in traditional molds.
If you're in the port city of Gdansk during in December, be sure to stop by its Christmas market on Targ Weglowy to meet the Polish Santa, take a twirl on the ice skating rink, and see Christmas tree displays from around the world. You can also buy gifts made from amber harvested from the nearby Baltic Sea or find souvenirs that will remind you of your stay in this northern city.
Poznan's main square is a lovely venue for a Christmas market. Every December, this market stands out with a nativity scene and the International Ice Sculpture Competition. The sculptures are left standing until they melt, so make sure you don't dally if you want to see them!
 Krakow Christmas Market 
 Warsaw Christmas Market 
 Wroclaw Christmas Market 
 Torun Christmas Market 
 Gdansk Christmas Market 
 Poznan Christmas Market 
